
=== Page 1 ===
 
-  RESUMES & COVER LETTERS A Harvard Extension School Resource

 MIGNONE CENTER FOR CAREER SUCCESS Harvard University | Faculty of Arts and Sciences

MIGNONE CENTER FOR CAREER SUCCESS


=== Page 2 ===

-  © 2024 President and Fellows of Harvard College
-  No part of this publication may be reproduced in any way without the express written permission of the Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Mignone Center for Career Success.
-  Mignone Center for Career Success Harvard University Faculty of Arts & Sciences Cambridge, MA 02138 mcs@fas.harvard.edu careerservices.fas.harvard.edu


=== Page 3 ===
 CREATE A STRONG RESUME
-  A resume is a brief, informative summary of your abilities, education, and experience relevant to the role you are applying ; for. It should highlight your strongest assets and skills and differentiate you from other candidates [ seeking similar positions. Although it alone will not get you a job or internship, a good resume is an important element toward obtaining an : interview. :

NEED HELP?
-  Tailor your resume to the type of position you are seeking. This does not mean that all of your experience must relate directly, but your resume should reflect the skills, experience, and impact the employer would value.
-  RESUME TIPS RESUME LANGUAGE SHOULD BE: + Specific rather than general + Active rather than passive - Written to express not impress + Articulate rather than “flowery” + Fact-based (quantify and qualify) - Written for people who scan quickly TOP 5 RESUME MISTAKES: Spelling and grammar errors Missing email and phone information Using passive language instead of “action” words Not well organized, concise, or easy to skim Not tailored to the position or industry gS G8 [> DO: + Tailor content to the positions you seek + Be consistent in format and content DON'T: + Make it easy to read and follow, balancing white space - Use personal pronouns (such as 1) + Use consistent spacing, underlining, italics, bold, and MARGTEvintG capitalization for emphasis + List headings (such as Experience) in order of importance - Within headings, list information in reverse chronological order (most recent first) - Use a narrative style + Number or letter sections + Use slang or colloquialisms + Include a picture + Include age or marital status + List references + Start each line with a date + Avoid gaps such as a missing year of experience + Be sure that your formatting will translate properly if converted to a .pdf + Convey your impact


=== Page 4 ===
ACTION VERBS FOR YOUR RESUME
-  LEADERSHIP Accomplished Achieved Contracted Coordinated Handled Headed Organized Oversaw Regulated Reorganized COMMUNICATION Addressed Arbitrated Developed Directed Influenced Interpreted Presented Promoted Suggested Synthesized RESEARCH Clarified Collected Diagnosed Discovered Interpreted Interviewed Surveyed Systematized TECHNICAL Assembled Built Installed Maintained Solved Standardized TEACHING Adapted Advised Enabled Encouraged Persuaded Set Goals QUANTITATIVE Administered Allocated Computed Developed Projected Researched CREATIVE Acted Composed Directed Established Introduced Invented Revitalized Shaped HELPING Administered Delegated Impacted Planned Reviewed Arranged Documented Lectured Publicized Translated Concluded Evaluated Investigated Tested Calculated Operated Streamlined Clarified Evaluated Stimulated Analyzed Forecasted Conceived Fashioned Originated Visualized Analyzed Developed Improved Predicted Scheduled Authored Drafted Liaised Reconciled Verbalized Conducted Examined Modeled Computed Optimized Upgraded Coached Explained Studied Appraised Managed Conceptualized Founded Performed Assigned Directed Increased Prioritized Spearheaded Collaborated Edited Mediated Recruited Wrote Constructed Extracted Organized Designed Overhauled Communicated Facilitated Taught Audited Marketed Created Illustrated Planned Attained Earned Led Produced Strengthened Convinced Energized Moderated Reported Critiqued Formed Resolved Devised Programmed Coordinated Guided Trained Balanced Maximized Customized Initiated Published Chaired Evaluated Mastered Proved Supervised Corresponded Enlisted Negotiated Rewrote Derived Identified Reviewed Engineered Remodeled Demystified Informed Budgeted Minimized Designed Instituted Redesigned Consolidated Executed Orchestrated Recommended Surpassed Delivered Formulated Persuaded Spoke Determined Inspected Summarized Fabricated Repaired Developed Instructed Calculated Planned Developed Integrated Revised


=== Page 5 ===
 HarvARD EXTENSION SCHOOL ON YOUR RESUME
-  Weare regularly asked how students and alumni can most accurately convey their education at the Extension School on their resumes. You'll find sample formats below for those enrolled in degree programs, earning a certificate, or completing a single class. The degrees earned at HES are Bachelor of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies and Master of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies and are commonly abbreviated from their Latin translations as ALB and ALM degrees. When including coursework or foci, awards and honors, projects, or campus involvement in the Education section of your resume, always consider what is relevant to the specific job you are applying for. If you want to go into more detail about projects or campus activities relevant to the employer, you may consider including those details in separate Academic Projects or Volunteer and Activities sections instead of under Education. [For those applying to an HES degree program, follow the resume instructions provided by the Admissions office.]

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SCHOOL
-  Master of Liberal Arts (ALM), Data Science
-  Cambridge, MA February 20XX

 Harvard University Extension School, Cambridge, MA
-  Bachelor of Liberal Arts, Field of Study Economics, May 20XX Cum Laude, Dean’s List, GPA 3.62 Worked up to 40 hours a week to defray cost of tuition
-  HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School, Master of Liberal Arts, Biotechnology (May 20XX)

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School, Cambridge, MA
-  February 20XX

 ALM, Global Development Practice
-  Graduate Certificate in Sustainable Cities and Communities
-  HARVARD UNIVERSITY, Cambridge, MA [Note: if Extension School is not included in the school name, ‘in Extension Studies’ needs to be included on the degree name]

 Harvard University Extension School, Cambridge, MA
-  Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity (20XX)

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School
-  Preadmission coursework toward Bachelor of Liberal Arts
-  Cambridge, MA 20XX-20XX

HARVARD UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SCHOOL, Cambridge, MA
-  Completed course in Industrial Psychology and Organizational Behavior, Fall 20XX


=== Page 6 ===
 WRITE AN EFFECTIVE CovER LETTER
-  Your cover letter is a writing sample and a part of the screening process. By putting your best foot forward, you can increase your chances of being interviewed. A good way to create a response-producing cover letter is to highlight your skills or experiences that are most applicable to the job or industry and to tailor the letter to the specific organization you are applying to.

Some general rules about letters:
-  Opening paragraph: Clearly state why you are writing, name the position or type of work you're exploring and, where applicable, how you heard about the person or organization. Explain why you are interested in this position and employer and what makes you a good fit for their stated needs. (Be specific, based on the role requirements.)
-  Middle paragraph(s): Connect your story to this position. What specific examples provide the fit you mentioned in the first paragraph? you've had relevant experience, be sure to point it out with one or two key examples; but do not reiterate your entire resume. Be sure to do this in a confident manner, clarifying the connection between your example and the role for the reader, and remember that the reader will view your letter as an example of your writing skills.
-  Closing paragraph: Reiterate your interest in the position or company, and your enthusiasm for using your skills to contribute to the work of the organization. Thank the reader for their consideration of your application, and end by stating that you look forward to the opportunity to further discuss the position in an interview.
-  Sincerely,
-  Your name typed


=== Page 7 ===
 FIRSTNAME LASTNAME
-  Boston, MA [Optional] | 617-555-1212 | email@address [a LinkedIn profile or portfolio link or other info could be added here, if needed]

 Education
-  [Education may be moved to the end if Experience is more relevant. A Summary section could also be added as the first section. ]

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School
-  Master of Liberal Arts (ALM), Field of Study [or Bachelor of Liberal Arts (ALB)] Graduation Date [Month Year] Capstone [Note: Optional]:
-  Graduate Certificate in [Topic] [If relevant]
-  [Note: other optional areas, such as Relevant coursework or Awards and Honors may also be added]

 UNDERGRADUATE INSTITUTION [Note: If Applicable]
-  Bachelor of Arts in [Topic]
-  City, State or Country Graduation Date [Month Year]

 Experience

 ORGANIZATION
-  City, State (or Remote)

 Position Title
-  Month Year— Month Year

 ORGANIZATION
-  City, State

 Position Title
-  Month Year— Month Year
-  Additional Information [Note: section topic and content/format could vary]

 ORGANIZATION
-  City, State
-  Month Year— Month Year

Skills
-  [Note: Optional; for some roles where specific skills are vital, such as programming, the Skills section may be included earlier on the resume]
-  Technical: List computer software and programming languages
-  Language: List foreign languages and your level of fluency
-  Laboratory [Note: or other specific skills types, as applicable]: List scientific / research lab techniques or tools


=== Page 8 ===
 Sample Resume

 Jin Wang

 email@gmail.com ¢ (555) 555-5555

 Education

 Harvard University, Extension School
-  Master of Liberal Arts, Information Management Systems
-  GPA 4.0

 University of Malaya
-  Bachelor of Computer Science

 Technical Skills
-  Machine Learning = * Python/Scikit-learn © Spark ¢ Data Visualization Quantitative Analysis ¢ Cloud Computing ¢ Hadoop ¢ Java/C# Unix Scripting ¢ Oracle/SQLServer ¢ PLSQL/T-SQL ¢ Data Warehouse/ETL RDBMS Tuning ¢ Network Protocols «© Agile & DevOps ¢ Web Development

 Professional Experience

 Rande Corporate & Investment Banking
-  Associate — Information Technology

Olson Financial
-  Associate — Information Technology


=== Page 9 ===
 Sample Resume (page 2)

 PS Engineering Information Ltd.
-  Software Developer — Technology Office

 Well
-  Software Developer

 Silver Technologies Ltd.
-  Software Developer

Certifications
-  e 4-course graduate-level certificate in Data Science, Harvard University January 20XX e ITIL Foundation V3 January 20XX e Project Management Professional (PMP)® March 20XX ¢ Certified Salesforce Developer October 20XX


=== Page 10 ===
 Sample Resume

 Nadia Smythe

 email@g.harvard.edu | 555-555-5555

 EDUCATION

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SCHOOL
-  20XX
-  Master of Liberal Arts, Management

 UNIVERSIDAD NACIONAL AUTONOMA DE MEXICO
-  Bachelor of Business Administration in Marketing

 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

 AGENDA28
-  September 20XX - Present
-  CO-FOUNDER/ DESIGN STRATEGY DIRECTOR

 ENTERPRISSE DE MEXICO
-  November 20XX - January 20XX
-  MARKETING & SALES DIRECTOR

 OPTICIANE MEXICO
-  January 20XX - October 20XX
-  PR & MEDIA EXECUTIVE

 CLAIROLE MEXICO
-  March 20XX - December 20XX
-  PREFERENCE BRAND MANAGER
-  TRAINEE: Managed the Mexico City’s point of sales team
-  INTERNSHIP: Supported Paris’ hair color brands with sales forecasts, design of promotions and PR events

VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE


=== Page 11 ===
 Jesse Jayant
-  555-555-5555/ you@gmail.com

 Summary
-  Finance professional with over 10 years of experience in publicly traded and privately held enterprises. Proven track record in complex and capital-intensive global industries, delivering value and innovation in Finance, Strategy, and Corporate Planning.

 Core Competencies

 Experience

 USA Airlines, Chicago, IL

 Sr. Financial Analyst, Information Technology Financial Planning

 Dream Properties, Bangalore, India

 Sr. Financial Analyst, Finance & Strategic Planning

 20XX — 20XX

 USA Airlines, Chicago, IL

 Sr. Financial Analyst, Human Resources Finance

 20XX — 20XX

 Sr. Financial Analyst, Operations Business Planning

 20XX — 20XX

 USA Owl Airlines, Chicago, IL

 Financial Analyst, Financial Analysis & Capital Planning

20XX — 20XX


=== Page 12 ===
 Alpro Laboratories, Detroit, MI Financial Analyst, Finance & Business Planning

 Morgan Firm, Wood, MI

 Intern

 Education

 Harvard University, Extension School, Cambridge, MA
-  Master of Liberal Arts - Management
-  Graduate Certificate — Organizational Behavior

 Kalamazoo College, Kalamazoo, MI
-  December 20XX
-  Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance

Additional Information


=== Page 13 ===
 Sample Resume

 Jacob A. McLean

 54 Dunster St e Cambridge, MA 02138 you@gmail.com e (555) 555-5555

 Education

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School
-  Master of Liberal Arts, Information Management Systems

 RUTGERS, THE STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW JERSEY
-  Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science with Mathematics minor

 Professional Experience

 STATE STREET CORPORATION
-  Principal — Simulated Technology

 FIDELITY INVESTMENTS
-  Associate — Interactive Technology

 L.L. BEAN, INC.
-  Freeport, ME
-  IT Consultant
-  June 20XX — December 20XX

 Technical Expertise
-  MS Excel, PowerPoint, Relational Databases, Project Management, Quantitative Analysis, SQL, Java

Additional
-  Organized computer and English literacy workshops for underprivileged children in South Asia, 20XX Student Scholarship Recipient, National Conference on Race and Ethnicity, 20XX-20XX


=== Page 14 ===
 Sample Resume

 SUSAN R. SMITH

 Cambridge, MA * 555.555.5555 * you@gmail.com

 EDUCATION

 Master of Liberal Arts, Finance
-  Harvard University, Extension School, Cambridge, MA (May 20XX, GPA 3.85)

 Bachelor of Science, Biomedical Engineering
-  Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA (December 20XX, GPA 3.78)

 Level Il Candidate CFA Program

 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT PROJECT

 HARVARD UNIVERSITY - Investment Management Course
-  Spring 20XX
-  Final project (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Asset Trust)

 PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
-  SYNOPSIS, INC., Marlborough, MA Senior Application Consultant II - Synplicite Product Sales
-  2011 — Present
-  Synopsis is a publicly traded provider of software for ASIC and FPGA microchip design serving Fortune 500 companies. Synopsis purchased Synplicite in 2008.

 Demonstrated Revenue Growth:

 Proven Leadership:

 Technology Investment Management:

 SYNPLICITE, INC., Andover, MA
-  Senior Field Application Engineer - Synplicite Product Sales

 Demonstrated Revenue Growth:

 Technology Investment Management:

Proven Leadership:


=== Page 15 ===
 Sample Resume

 SANJAY GOPAL
-  54 Dunster Street * Cambridge, MA 02138 * 555-555-5555 * you@gmail.com

 Project Director
-  Project Director with extensive leadership experience in highly competitive IT and Telecom industry. Proven track record of leading and managing multi-million-dollar international programs across northern Europe, Middle East, North America and South America.
-  Specialize in launching new services and products from concept to roll-out and building organizations from ground up. Expertise in improving team performance while securing customer loyalty and forging valuable relationships with internal and external partners.
-  Core Competencies Project/Operations Management e Leadership e P&L Management Strategic Planning e Building organizations e Risk Management Client Management & Retention e Negotiations e Business development

 Professional Experience

 Comyerse Inc., USA
-  Oct 20XX - Present
-  The world's leading provider of Telecom software and systems

Accomplishments:


=== Page 16 ===
 Sample Resume (page 2)

 Atlas Telecommunications, UAE
-  April 20XX - Sept 20XX
-  Leading telecomm solution & system supplier, based in UAE

 Business Development Manager, Abu-Dhabi
-  Marketed and sold telecommunication systems for Telecom, Defense, Oil and gas companies. Managed contract negotiations, RFI /RFP responses and project agreements.

 Accomplishments:

 Facile Call Paging, India
-  June 20XX - March 20XX
-  Largest & most innovative paging service provider in India

 Sr. Manager (Projects & Operations), New Delhi
-  Launched first green field paging network across north India. Managed operations and customer support with team of 9 engineers and 70 customer care agents.

 Accomplishments:

Education
-  Harvard University Extension School, Master of Liberal Arts, Management, Expected May 20XX
-  Regional Engineering College, Surat, India, Bachelor of Engineering, May 20XX
-  Project Management Institute (PMI), Professional Certification: PMP
-  Sanjay Gopal


=== Page 17 ===
 Sample Resume

 John Reynolds
-  Cambridge, MA you@gmail.com + 555.555.5555

 Education
-  HARVARD UNIVERSITY Extension School, Master of Liberal Arts, Biotechnology (May 20XX)
-  UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, Bachelor of Science in Neurobiological Sciences (May 20XX)

 Professional Experience

 BRIGHAM AND WOMEN’S HOSPITAL - Boston, MA (December 20XX - May 20XX)
-  Senior Research Assistant
-  HARVARD UNIVERSITY - Cambridge, MA (January 20XX — May 20XX; January 20X°X — May 20XX) Teaching Fellow for the course, BIOS E-210, “The Physiology of Sleep”

 WGBH EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION - Boston, MA (August 20XX — January 20XX)
-  Project Consultant for the HMS Sleep and Health Education Web site
-  HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL - Boston, MA (Match 20XX — January 20XX)
-  Assistant Editor for the HMS Sleep and Health Education Web site

 Publications

Community Service


=== Page 18 ===
 Sample Resume

 Sarah Lopes Jones
-  Cambridge, MA * 555-555-5555 * you@gmail.com
-  IBM, Cambridge, MA, 20XX - 20XX

 Senior Technical Services Professional, 20XX — 20XX
-  IBM Software Group (SWG) HQ division, which manages services to 7 brands/divisions, including: Lotus, Rational, Tivoli, Cognos, and WebSphere, with a total client base of 35,000.

Advanced Systems Management Integration Professional, 20XX — 20XX


=== Page 19 ===
 Sample Resume (page 2)

 Sarah Lopes Jones

 page 2

 MJ Research (currently Bio-Rad Laboratories), Waltham, MA Network Administrator and Help Desk Manager, 20XX — 20XX

 Technical Skills
-  Hardware: IBM System x, BladeCenter, Intellistation, ThinkPad, PowerBook, AMD, Dell, Cisco, TotalStorage, NAS, tape backup.
-  Networking: switches/hubs, cabling, DSL/VPN, TCP/IP, remote access, DMZ/firewall. Software: Windows Operating Systems, Mac OS X, VMware, security and virus protection, system mgmt software, middleware, BrioQuery, ACT!, Filemaker Pro, Eudora Pro, Apple: iLife, iWork. Microsoft: Office, FrontPage, Project, SMS, Outlook, Visio. Lotus: Notes, Symphony, Sametime, SmartSuite, Adobe: Photoshop, Illustrator, PageMaker, Acrobat.

 Education

 Harvard University Extension School, Cambridge, MA
-  Master of Liberal Arts, Management, May 20XX

Emerson College, Boston, MA
-  Bachelor of Science in Marketing Communications: Advertising and Public Relations, May 20XX PMI Institute: PMP Certified
-  IBM: Leadership Excellence Program: 148 class hours developing leadership skills Microsoft: Windows 2000 Certified Systems Engineer


=== Page 20 ===
 Sample Resume

 Georgina Santiago
-  Cambridge, MA / 555-555-5555 / you@gmail.com / www. linkedin.com/in/profile

 EDUCATION

 Harvard University Extension School
-  Bachelor of Liberal Arts, Field of Study Economics Cum Laude, Dean’s List, GPA 3.62 Worked up to 40+ hours a week to defray cost of tuition
-  Cambridge, MA May 2016

 EXPERIENCE

 Hangtime Wholesale Wine Company

 Sales Representative
-  Opened and maintain 40 accounts in the greater Boston area. Conduct in-store tastings and staff trainings to generate greater revenue. Create and distribute promotional materials.

 Christie’s Auction House

 Intern, Fine and Rare Wine Department
-  Performed pre-and post-sale statistical analysis. Researched and executed mass mailing in order to generate new consignments. Researched potential domestic clients for annual Hospice de Beaune Auction. Generated contracts for consignors. Served as front-line contact for both existing clients and potential consignors, handling incoming and outgoing correspondence. Compiled and entered tasting notes for auction catalogue.

 Montagna Bar and Restaurant

 Back-Server, Cocktail Server, Food-Runner
-  Active participant in wine program, including weekly blind-tastings. Created suitable beverage pairing for patrons.

 Shay’s Pub and Wine Bar

 Server, Bartender, Floor Manager
-  Coordinated and promoted weekly specials to generate optimal revenue. Participated in development, expansion and improvement of wine program. Recruited and trained all floor staff. Increased overall restaurant sales by 75%.

 The Second Glass

Staff Writer
-  Launched premier issue of print and online wine magazine. Increased public visibility through participation in wine related events. Provided up to three articles per print issue and once weekly for online issue. Conducted research and interviews for articles.


=== Page 21 ===
Sample Cover Letter
-  February 21, 20XX
-  Liza Wideman Recruiting Coordinator Great Strategy Consulting Firm 200 Shell Fish Blvd, Suite 199 San Francisco, CA 94080
-  Dear Liza Wideman:
-  I am writing to express my interest in the Associate position at Great Strategy Consulting Firm. As a Master of Liberal Arts degree candidate at Harvard Extension School, specializing in Information Technology, I come with a solid technical background, a strong interest in business, and a passion for strategy. I have maintained a 3.95 GPA through a well-balanced program of study, enhancing my analytical and technical skills while building my teamwork and leadership capabilities. I am extremely impressed with Great Strategy’s approach to strategy consulting, especially within the Business Development and Innovation practice areas. My academic background, business knowledge and industry experiences have provided me with the credentials needed to thrive as an Associate.
-  Prior to Harvard, I worked as a technology professional, primarily resolving strategic issues related to technology process improvement. I gained solid research, analytical and problem-solving skills while working in Fortune 500 companies. My background in generating innovative ideas and strategies to improve processes has provided me with a deeper understanding of multifaceted problems that companies encounter in their daily operations. Moreover, because of my work experiences, I fully understand how important it is to have great team dynamics in today’s multi-disciplinary business environment.
-  To date, my experience as an IT professional has been extremely rewarding and productive. However, it is through strategy consulting that I can use my analytical aptitude and creative problem-solving skills to their fullest. Consulting is a discipline that will force me to view problems not only from the client’s standpoint but also from a marketplace, best practices and “think out of the box” point of view.
-  I would appreciate the opportunity to interview with Great Strategy Consulting Firm for the Associate position. Please find enclosed my resume for your review. I can be reached via email at jacob.mclean@post.harvard.edu or by phone at (617) 555-3456. I enthusiastically look forward to hearing from you soon.
-  Thank you for your time and consideration.
-  Sincerely,
-  Jacob A. McLean


=== Page 22 ===
Sample Cover Letter
-  October 10, 20XX
-  Susan Carey Senior Manager Wholesale Wine USA 23 Green St. Boston, MA 02116
-  Dear Susan Carey:
-  I am writing to apply for your position in wine wholesale as advertised on Crimson Careers. This exciting opportunity appears to be a wonderful fit with my professional experience, personal interests, and career goals.
-  I am returning to Boston to complete my final year at Harvard University Extension School, where I am majoring in economics. Having spent the year working and traveling, I am eager to incorporate myself once again into the local wine community, to which I can bring experience in a number of sectors of the industry.
-  Through eight years in the restaurant field, I have acquired a deep love of and appreciation for wine and cuisine. I have been known to wax rhapsodic over specials; nothing made me happier than discussing a bottle with a table. This enthusiasm allowed me to introduce a list of reserve selections to Shay’s Pub and Wine Bar. The result was an appreciable increase in sales for the restaurant and repeat attendance by customers. My position at Aspen's award-winning Montagna allowed me to expand upon my knowledge of wine, locally inspired cuisine, and the highest standards of service. Our weekly blind-tastings fueled my desire to further myself in this field, and I am in the process of acquiring certification through both the Court of Master Sommeliers and the Wine Spirit and Education Trust.
-  Most recently, I have returned from France where I was lucky enough to work on an organic vineyard in Beaujolais. I adored working with the young, dynamic, vigneron who ran the estate, the largest of its kind in the region. A position at your wholesale wine company would allow me to draw upon this experience and to facilitate the success of such producers. Additionally, it would enable me to replicate the most enjoyable components of my experience overall: working with my colleagues in the local restaurant industry, as well as with distinctive, iconoclastic wine- makers.
-  I am readily available via email or phone in order to arrange an interview and have attached my resume below per your request. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions. I appreciate your consideration and look forward to hearing from you.
-  Sincerely,
-  Georgina Santiago
