
=== Page 1 ===
 Assistive Technology Assessment Handbook

Edited by Stefano Federici and Marcia J. Scherer


=== Page 2 ===
Assistive Technology Assessment Handbook


=== Page 3 ===
 
-  President
-  Executive
-  Professor Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation University of Rochester Medical Center
-  Editor-in-Chief Disability and Rehabilitation
-  Founding Editor Aphasiology

 Published Titles
-  Assistive Technology Assessment Handbook, edited by Stefano Federici and Marcia J. Scherer

Forthcoming Titles
-  Neuroprosthetics: Principles and Applications, Justin C. Sanchez
-  Quality of Life Technology, Richard Schultz


=== Page 4 ===
Assistive Technology Assessment Handbook
-  Edited by Stefano Federici and Marcia J. Scherer
-  CRC Press is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business


=== Page 5 ===

-  CRC Press Taylor & Francis Group 6000 Broken Sound Parkway NW, Suite 300
-  © 2012 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
-  No claim to original U.S. Government works
-  International Standard Book Number-13: 978-1-4398-3866-2 (eBook - PDF)
-  This book contains information obtained from authentic and highly regarded sources. Reasonable efforts have been made to publish reliable data and information, but the author and publisher cannot assume responsibility for the validity of all materials or the consequences of their use. The authors and publishers have attempted to trace the copyright holders of all material repro- duced in this publication and apologize to copyright holders if permission to publish in this form has not been obtained. If any
-  Except as permitted under U.S. Copyright Law, no part of this book may be reprinted, reproduced, transmitted, or utilized in any form by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying, microfilming,
-  For permission to photocopy or use material electronically from this work, please access www.copyright.com (http://www.copy- right.com/) or contact the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc. (CCC), 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400. CCC is a not-for-profit organization that provides licenses and registration for a variety of users. For organizations that have been
-  Trademark Notice: Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered trademarks, and are used only for identifica-
-  Visit the Taylor & Francis Web site at
-  and the CRC Press Web site at


=== Page 6 ===

-  This book is dedicated to the psychotechnologists of today and the
-  future, regardless of the country in which they work.


=== Page 7 ===

-  This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 8 ===
 Contents
-  Foreword .........................................................................................................................................ix Preface .............................................................................................................................................xv Contributors ................................................................................................................................. xix

 Section I The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions
-  S. Federici and M. J. Scherer

Section II Assessment Professionals: Working on the Multidisciplinary Team
-  M. J. Scherer and S. Federici
-  Assessment ...........................................................................................................................179 K. Miesenberger, F. Corradi, and M. L. Mele
-  vii


=== Page 9 ===
Section III Assistive Technology Devices and Services S. Federici and M. J. Scherer
-  Index .............................................................................................................................................439


=== Page 10 ===
 Foreword

Global Perspectives and Emerging Themes in Assistive Technology Assessment
-  I am delighted and privileged to be asked by the eminent editors of this text, Stefano Federici and Marcia J. Scherer, to write a foreword. These colleagues are at the forefront of work within the field of assistive technology and have pioneered much of the current thinking resulting in both the delivery of services to individuals and transformational research. The emergence and importance of this field can be demonstrated through the emergence of Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology as a standalone journal affiliated with Disability and Rehabilitation. This journal, which embraces the broad field of assistive technology, is edited by Marcia J. Scherer, ably assisted by Stefano Federici as an editorial board member.
-  These two journals, like this book, are characterized by their international coverage, multiprofessional publications, and interprofessional research of the highest quality. This edited volume includes contributions from five continents and reinforces the global approach to responding to the needs of individuals and in some cases communities requiring support and intervention.
-  This is no easy challenge, and the need remains to recognize both the integrity of those contributing disciplines and individuals along with the emerging integrative approach to rehabilitation.
-  What this text does is set a framework for future practice and research within the field of assistive technology assessment. It is clearly structured into three sections, the first of which sets the context, the second brings together perspectives from those professions working in the field, and the third focuses on assistive technology devices themselves and the positive outcomes that can emerge. Each section of this book has a separate introduction, and these contributions themselves are not only informative but reflect the vision of the editors for this field of work.
-  Having been asked to write this introduction, it was with pleasure that I was able to read the chapters prior to their publication, and rather than repeating or simply reiterating what can readily be assimilated, I found myself reflecting on some of the emerging cross-cutting themes. Although not comprehensive, the four themes that stood out for me characterize the need to develop innovative approaches within this field while recognizing the individuality of both the user and those professionals engaged.
-  In many ways the topic all of the authors are addressing and the field of enquiry is relatively straightforward. The advances in technology and the potential benefits that can accrue highlight the need to undertake purposeful and sophisticated forms of assessment of individuals to understand their need and how they can benefit from the wide range of available devices. These individuals themselves in different ways are looking for better outcomes in response to their disabilities and broadly through the rehabilitative process to improve in some way or other their quality of life. Therefore, assessment is the first stage of


=== Page 11 ===
 
-  this process and facilitates an evaluation of the effectiveness of the intervention that must be undertaken on a regular basis. What then emerges from my initial reading of these outstanding chapters from individuals working in this field?

 Assistive Technology Is Increasingly Complex and Sophisticated, Which Needs to Be Reflected in the Assessment Process
-  Although this actually states the obvious, it still provides one of the greatest challenges in undertaking the assessment of individuals to determine how best to deploy technology. Chapters 16, 17, and 18 highlight the sophistication emerging within the fields of technology and the potential benefits to individuals.
-  Nevertheless, the more complex both the assessment process and the technological aids themselves become, there is a danger that they become less accessible, and a number of authors throughout this text remind us through their work of “abandonment,” with one of the greatest problems being that individuals stop using the devices. Furthermore, the more complex the assessment process, the less motivated individuals can become given their need and their understandable desire to have access to available facilities and support. And not only is the complexity difficult for the user and those professionals undertaking the assessments, but there remains the danger that they become more costly and hence have lower impact.
-  Indeed, the process of assessment itself is costly given the number of professionals who potentially need to be engaged, and there is an “opportunity cost” issue here in terms of direct therapeutic intervention as compared with careful assessment and planning. Therefore, one of our conundrums is that the more complex and greater technological advances we make, there remains a potential threat of the extent to which these can be applied in practice, which in turn affects the vulnerability of those with disabilities.

The Need for Inter- and Multidisciplinary Approaches to Assessment
-  For me, this is then the second major issue. It is clear from this text that the assessment process is critical to future success, but that it involves a wide range of disciplines and in some cases the emergence of new interdisciplinary approaches. For example, Chapter 9 introduces for the first time to myself the role of the “psychotechnologist.” I am sure there are other integrated professional approaches yet to be brought together. As knowledge within the professional fields involved with assistive technology becomes more sophisticated and our knowledge simply grows exponentially, the capacity to introduce shared professional education and training becomes increasingly difficult.
-  Furthermore, we do need to recognize and indeed value the different perspectives offered by the vast range of individuals working within this field through their initial education, training, and postgraduate study. There are different paradigms ranging from those working primarily in the field from a medical perspective, through to those in focused but relatively multidisciplinary professions, and on to those making such enormous contributions through their technological rather than social skills.


=== Page 12 ===
 
-  Foreword
-  No one person or profession can any longer cover this breadth, and we therefore need to find new ways of working together.
-  Fortunately, it is not the case that people cannot do this, but it is a time-consuming, resource-intensive process, and the outputs as prioritized and measured need to demonstrate the effectiveness of such an approach.
-  I know that myself and Marcia J. Scherer are proud to be editing journals that encourage multidisciplinary approaches and perspectives on different aspects of rehabilitation and work hard to include contributions from diverse cultures and backgrounds. In reflecting upon these issues, we should not forget the range of professionals not included in this text, particularly those working in the field of employment, advocacy, insurance, and related business professions. There is nothing negative about recognizing the changing roles of professionals, but the challenge remains to help all of us take different perspectives and to give away some aspects of our own understanding to work better with others.

 The Impact of the Environment and the Context
-  Individuals and indeed communities both embrace and are constrained by the context in which they live. The assessment of an individual has to take this into account, and both place and context are integral to this process. In relatively structured rehabilitation, there are well-worked processes and procedures within which to undertake assessment and to draw upon the services and opportunities presented by the environment within which this is done. However, there are circumstances in which the assessment process is either limited through the resources that are available or by the requirement to respond at a pragmatic level. Community-based programs are often limited by personnel and resources and rely much more upon those living and working within that particular environment. Disasters such as those recently affecting Japan and Haiti require swift and emergency response mechanisms in which the assessment process might be less important when looking to provide assistive technologies to help support the vast numbers of individuals clearly in need. These issues are not confined to the environment or the context but to the interpersonal connections of the individual being assessed.
-  Chapter 5 highlights the impact on caregivers and the family, but we should add to this the wide range of individual contacts, including friends, peers, and those in the workplace.
-  This also affects the social context and influences those outputs by which the effectiveness of any intervention is judged, including economic well-being. Underpinning this in many cases is a commitment to enhance the quality of life, often through participation in the world of others with the view to retaining and playing a respected role within wider society.

What the User Wants and How Can It Be Measured?
-  The importance of participation and enhancing the quality of life as much as alleviating some aspects of disability was referred to in the previous section. In many cases these measures are more important to the individual and more greatly affect the way in which


=== Page 13 ===
 
-  the success of having access to assistive technology is measured. Chapter 15 is an excellent overview of the “user experience framework.” Any perceived improvement through the use of assistive technology must be recognized and valued by the individual himself or herself for the impact to be measured effectively.
-  Many studies are published that do show improvement on a range of variables, and although these are important in demonstrating the efficacy of particular techniques without recourse to simply measuring the impact on the individual from his or her perspective, they do lack an element of validity.
-  This is not to say that publications of this kind should not be published; it just further reinforces the complexity of working in the field of rehabilitation. The more recent emphasis on goal-setting both jointly with professionals and individually is a positive way forward in terms of measuring impact. There is both a realism to goal-setting and the opportunity to be aspirational and to go beyond that which perhaps others think possible. The goal of employment is not unlikely to remain critical to many for reintegration into the life experienced prior to the disability. This might not always be possible, but without understanding the perspective of the user, the success or otherwise of intervention cannot fully be understood.
-  At the heart of undertaking an assessment of an individual for the use of assisted technology is where this person is starting from, where they want to go or believe they can get, aspirational thinking to take them further, and the journey itself. I judge that this book in the way it has brought together such a wide range of committed individuals has as its underpinning philosophy a commitment to listening to and responding positively to the voice of the individual participant. Resources are still given to rather than owned by those requiring them, and as in other changing areas such as education and social care there may yet be a further strengthening of the role of the user by providing resources from which they can choose or even purchase.
-  I found this book stimulating, and I am proud to have had an opportunity to contribute a few thoughts. Thank you to Marcia and Stefano for this opportunity to join you in contributing to this debate.

Dave J. Muller
-  Editor-in-Chief, Disability and Rehabilitation Suffolk New College, United Kingdom
-  The collaboration between Marcia J. Scherer and the Centre for Technological Aid and Research Ausilioteca of the Leonarda Vaccari Institute in Rome was born when Marcia, accompanied with Stefano Federici, visited our institute. On that day, a warm empathy between me and Marcia was born. An interesting brainstorm about the various activities took off: activities that we could carry out together because we realized that we share the same visions. The activities of the Leonarda Vaccari Institute—with its multidisciplinary team—reflected the working methods for the Matching Person and Technology model carried out by Professor Scherer.
-  Almost a year later, I went to Rochester University to see Marcia again, and it was there that we managed to bring the drafting of the handbook to reality. The Ausilioteca di Roma (Centre for Technological Aid of Rome) put itself at the authors’ disposal to verify the


=== Page 14 ===

-  assistive technology assessment process model and the new competencies that had to be given to the new specific figure of the psycotechnologist.
-  The following are just a few words to understand what the Leonarda Vaccari Institute does and, in particular, what the Ausilioteca di Roma stands for. The Leonarda Vaccari Institute, the oldest nonprofit educational institution in Italy, addresses the special needs of children, adolescents, and adults with disabilities. Founded in 1936 by Professor Marchesa Leonarda Vaccari to help children affected with polio, today the institute provides comprehensive service to hundreds of individuals each year. The Leonarda Vaccari Institute is acknowledged as the Moral Entity with Royal Charter No. 2032 and public noncommercial initiative certified by the Region of Lazio; the institute functions under the National Health Service. Established 75 years ago, today the institution is one of the most experienced centers for the rehabilitation of people affected by severe mental and/ or physical disabilities between the developmental stages of childhood and adulthood. On December 8, 2007, the President of Italy, Giorgio Napolitano, awarded the Leonarda Vaccari Institute with the Gold Medal of Merit for Public Health Service. In the same year, the center was included in the 2° “Eurispes survey” among the 100 Italian Centres of Excellence. The Vaccari Institute is certified with the ISO 9001-200 IMQ/CSQ 9211.LVA quality.
-  The intent to provide a comprehensive diagnosis and to help people with disabilities with their special needs have been one of the initiative’s main concerns since its founda- tion. In accordance with the institute’s 1936 Constitution, treatment extending to the vari- ous aspects of disability can be synthesised in three procedures: medical care, education, and integration into the labor market. Since then, the Leonarda Vaccari Institute has been expanding its activities throughout comprehensive and individualized interventions, bringing a multidisciplinary analysis to every single case. Each day, the Vaccari Institute provides support to more than 300 people who require re-education and rehabilitation care within the framework of full-time hospital care, day care, or outpatient services. The institute provides a large number of therapies such as kinesitherapy and logotherapy, alternative communication, psychosensory stimulation, respiratory exercises, drama, etc., all charged to the National Health Service. The diagnostic team is composed of experi- enced clinical and school psychologists, psychotechnologists, psychiatrists, neuropsychia- trists, neuropsychologists, pediatricians, orthopedists, rehabilitation therapists, and other professionals working in specific relative fields.
-  In 1996, the Vaccari Institute founded the Ausilioteca di Roma, a center for technological aid and research. The sector of technological devices is characterized by a fast evolution, by the complexities of solutions that need to be found, and by the necessity to personalize these solutions. This innovative vision leads to different procedures for the various rehabilitation, welfare, and educational processes. To find an international model of assistive technology assessment, the institute has therefore initiated a fruitful collaboration with Stefano Federici of the University of Perugia, Olivetti Belardinelli of the Sapienza University of Rome, and Marcia J. Scherer of the Institute for Matching Person and Technology of Webster, NY. The success of this assistive technology assessment process lies primarily in the selection and implementation of technical aids determined by


=== Page 15 ===

-  The development of this sector finds its cultural motivations and improvement in the recent declaration of intents issued at the European level (e.g., Madrid 2002; European Year for People with Disabilities 2003), at the national level (e.g., Guidelines for the Rehabilitation released by the Ministry of Health in 1998), and at the international level [e.g., the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF), promoted by the World Health Organization].
-  Digital devices are instruments of an extraordinary importance apt to satisfy the needs of autonomy and quality of life of people with disabilities and their families. They also guarantee a suitable proposal by adding value to the right solutions and giving a permanent help to health service professionals and users. Moreover, a good assistive technology match can also guarantee the efficiency of the public expenses in this sector.
-  The Ausilioteca is a highly specialized service center that operates together with the National Health Service, various public entities, and schools, sustaining different projects and the use of advanced technologies aimed to the best inclusion of people with disabilities in schools and other life environments.
-  The handbook, realized in collaboration with academic professionals from different countries (United States, Europe, Australia, Brazil, and Japan), contains a scientific pattern for the assignment of assistive technologies to people with disabilities founded under the ICF model. The fulfillment and achievement of the model described in the handbook— together with the highlighted procedures—are one of the best practices carried out by the highly specialized personnel of the Leonarda Vaccari Institute.
-  It is with satisfaction and gratitude that I thank the authors of the handbook and in particular the editors, Marcia J. Scherer of the Institute for Matching Person and Technology and Stefano Federici of the University of Perugia, for their useful and splendid work.
-  Saveria Dandini De Sylva Executive President Istituto Leonarda Vaccari


=== Page 16 ===
Preface
-  This book is the result of scientific collaboration and sincere friendship that was born in 2001 and has gradually strengthened over time.
-  The collaboration begins with the creation, at the Faculty of Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome, of the first course in psychotechnology that was held in Italy. This course aimed to combine multiple topics, bringing together technological and ergonomic arguments and issues concerning the psychology of rehabilitation to train competent psychologists within assistive technology provision.
-  The course was designed by Stefano Federici and held at the Sapienza University of Rome from 2001 to 2008. The term “psychotechnology,” with the meaning adopted and introduced in the psychology of rehabilitation by Federici, initially sounded like a neologism. In fact, the objective of the course was to integrate technology and ergonomic aspects with those more specific of cognitive ergonomics, reread under the lens of the biopsychosocial model of disability, to train psychologists with both psychological and technological expertise and who were able to lead a user to meet their needs. Only in this way would it have been possible for the user to search and find a technological product that not only was satisfactory to his or her own person, but was also able to support him or her in the integration process within its milieu, by preventing, compensating, monitoring, relieving, or neutralizing disability and social barriers. Therefore, the psychotechnologist should possess those skills to be spent in centers for technical aid that, at the end of the last millennium, have begun to be characterized as autonomous centers of technology device assessment and assignment for an individual’s disability and independent living.
-  The main theoretical difficulty in designing the psychotechnology course was to integrate technological-engineering models—not dissimilar in some way by certain models of cognitive functioning that tend to generalize and idealize the individual— with the biopsychosocial model of disability. The ergonomic approach to technology, both of cognitive and engineering types, indeed often tends to neglect the emotional, motivational, and social user experience so that it does not take into account those factors that very often affect it with a higher rate of incidence in the successful outcome in device use.
-  The discovery by Federici of the Matching Person and Technology model by Marcia J. Scherer was like the key to squaring the circle. It is a model that has combined people with disabilities’ needs with assistive technologies in a user-centered context, without neglecting the functional and ergonomic features of the device. The answer to that fateful question was found, namely, that the psychotechnologist usually turned to him- or herself to find an effective integration of knowledge. As Federici was used to repeating in the psychotechnology course at the Sapienza University of Rome: “This course could also be called ‘Matching Person and Technology from the psychologist’s standpoint’.”
-  The collaboration between the Sapienza University of Rome and the Institute for Matching Person and Technology has produced dozens of theses and several doctoral dissertations concerning the adaptation and validation of the Matching Person and Technology model and tools or related to the professional profile and role of the psychologist in the assistive technology assessment and assignment processes. Some of those researchers and students are now successful professionals in psychotechnology. Furthermore, many authors who
-  xv


=== Page 17 ===

-  xvi
-  took part in writing of the chapters of this book come from that experience of study and research.
-  However, the collaboration and friendship between Marcia and Stefano has not only led to the sharing of ideas and research projects, but they have also created a scientific network among Italian, American, and other nations’ scholars who have formed the scientific community that has allowed such a large participation of authors in the writing of this work.
-  As the editors, let us now respond to the reasons for this book, which certainly was not intended to be a history of this social network or a biography of its editors. This book is a challenge for us: to develop an international ideal model of the assistive technology assessment process that gathers the most recent scientific developments in the assessment and provision of technical aids for an outcome that, if reached, would be a real success—the well-being of the disabled person. Therefore, this model intends to express in an idealized and essential form an assessment process performed in a center for technical aid because it provides such tools for the assessment and the professional profiles that we might also define as “psychotechnological.”
-  Of course, just because we speak of “challenge,” we reveal our awareness about the problems and limitations of an “international” ideal model. For example, one of the unsolved problems is the difficulty, already met several times, in defining the features of a center for technical aid. The modeling process of a center for technical aid is difficult if one takes into account the extraordinary variety of systems of regional and national health and social care, both public and private. This variety influences in different ways the specific characteristics that are required at a center. Furthermore, the different nature of the center for technical aid makes problematic the definition itself of the individual who addresses to it: user, patient, client, or consumer? The user (for convenience we use this definition, a little more generic than the others) of a center for technical aid could be a patient of a physician (physiatrist) who operates in a national system of health care and sends him or her to a specialized facility, the center for technical aid indeed, for a more thorough assessment of a particular device. This assessment can be provided free of charge if the center is part of a national health system or by paying out money if the center is part of a private health system. Furthermore, the product chosen by the user could be sold or assigned directly from the center for technical aid or, alternatively, the device provision may be made later by other providers, external and independent from the center
-  These are just some of the issues to be discussed by the authors of this book. In fact, other issues will be also addressed that are even more problematic from a scientific viewpoint. We refer to those that are intrinsically linked to the design of an international model. Because of the difficulty in finding an adequate and effective synthesis of the various models proposed by specific national systems of public health and welfare, the scientific community faces a modeling of assistive technology system delivery that will be increasingly individualized with respect to either the social and cultural diversity of users or to the necessary adjustment of the center for technical aid’s functioning to the local health system. However, it should be noted that this particularization of the models clashes with some trends that are aimed at instead promoting their globalization (for example, this occurs both in social and health policies of the European Community and in those of the World Health Organization). The internationalization of a model is indeed advantageous because it often emerges as a synthesis of experiences and know- hows of regional models. Moreover, it offers the opportunity, by sharing the theoretical


=== Page 18 ===

-  Preface
-  model and evaluation criteria, to share data essential to scientific research, planning, and evaluation of national and international policies and verify the quality of public services.
-  legitimate the choice made. In fact, our intention was not only to provide a theoretical text that aims to develop an ideal model of assistive technology assessment processes, but also to provide an operational tool that is able to outline both the specific space of applicability of the model itself and the main characteristics of a center for technical aid’s functioning, a tool-kit for a proper assessment, and profiles of professionals acting within the center. Moreover, it even seemed essential for us to compare our model with some of the most advanced researches in technologies for rehabilitation and supports for independent living. However, we were well aware that a detailed description of all matters regarding the functioning of a center for technical aid (i.e. assessment tools, professional profiles, the latest technology devices for rehabilitation and independent living) would have required an encyclopedia and not a manual such as this book. Therefore, and this could be read both as a limit and as well an advantage of this book, we have chosen, for each of the three areas mentioned—the tools of evaluation, the experts of the evaluation in a center for technical aid and new technologies—the aspects of the current state of the art that we judged as the most representative or innovative. So, we not only identified for each topic the leading experts and invited them to write about their topic, but also, where possible, we tried to ensure that each chapter was written by more hands, concerted and promoting cross-cultural viewpoints. For this reason, the reader should certainly not be surprised if he or she will not find mention some professions among those that could be treated in such a manual. We tried to give more prominence to the definition, training, and professional role of the new profession of psychotechnologist, as well as to highlighting the professional profile of the speech language pathologist because of the relevance of dysfunctions in language in today’s international health and social policies.
-  Finally, we would like to stress that this book does not intend to model the assistive technology assessment process as a result of a mere academic mental exercise, but it has even faced an applied research of the model. This is for two main reasons: The theoretical view of the authors’ chapters and editors emerge from experimental research applied to rehabilitation and assistive technologies. In addition, the international ideal model of the assistive technology assessment process is already applied in centers for technical aid. Thanks to scientific and clinical collaboration, economic and operational support of the Centre for Technical Aid of Rome, Leonarda Vaccari Institute—which, in turn, is part of the Italian Network of Centres Advice on Computer and Electronic Aids and cooperates with the Institute for Matching Person and Technology and Columbia University, with whom it shares the principles that underlie the assistive technology assessment process—it was possible to define the assessment model proposed in this book because the model is already operative in the Centre for Technical Aid of Rome. This center offers a noncommercial advisory and support on assistive technology and computers for communication, learning, and autonomy. The service is free of charge for users who access it through the Italian National Health Service. Several scientific projects granted by the institute are in progress at the center to verify not only the advantages of a systematic application of the Matching Person and Technology tools in the assessment process, but also the application of the assistive technology assessment process model. Some results will be presented and discussed in the chapters of this book.


=== Page 19 ===

-  xviii
-  Sincere thanks go to the authors of the chapters who have welcomed with enthusiasm our model, enriching in many parts the initial draft of this work and giving it a wide-ranging speech that is updated and credible. Special thanks also go to the publisher, Taylor & Francis, who accepted the project with competence, supporting the long process of drafting and revising the work. Again, special thanks go to many peer-reviewers of the chapters, who have played a generous and valuable role, such as guarantors for the scientific nature and validity of each contribution as well as representatives of the international scientific community in this area.


=== Page 20 ===
 Contributors

 M. Adya
-  Burton Blatt Institute Syracuse University Syracuse, New York

 R. Amantis
-  Leonarda Vaccari Institute for Rehabilitation Integration, and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities Rome, Italy

 G. Basili
-  Department of Pediatrics Senigallia General Hospital Senigallia, Italy

 N. Birbaumer
-  Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology Eberhard-Karls University Tübingen, Germany
-  and
-  IRCCS, San Camillo Scientific Hospital Institute Venezia Lido, Italy

 S. Borsci
-  Department of Human Science and Education University of Perugia Perugia, Italy
-  and
-  School of Information Systems, Computing and Mathematics Brunel University Uxbridge, United Kingdom
-  and
-  Mathematics for Match Plus Project Brunel University Uxbridge, United Kingdom

 L. W. Braga
-  Director, Neurosciences and Neurorehabili tation Division SARAH Network of Neurorehabilitation Hospitals Brasilia, Brazil

 C. M. Capio
-  Institute of Human Performance University of Hong Kong Hong Kong, China

 B. Cordella
-  Department of Dynamic and Clinical Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 F. Corradi
-  Leonarda Vaccari Institute for Rehabilitation Integration, and Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities Rome, Italy

 V. Corsi
-  F.A.R.E—Specialist Centre for Dyslexia and Learning Difficulties Perugia, Italy
-  G. Craddock Centre for Excellence in Universal Design Dublin, Ireland

 G. Craddock

I. L. de Camillis Gil
-  Neurological Rehabilitation Division SARAH Network of Neurorehabilitation Hospitals Brasilia, Brazil
-  xix


=== Page 21 ===
 D. de Jonge
-  Division of Occupational Therapy School of Health and Rehabilitation
-  University of Queensland Brisbane St. Lucia, Queensland, Australia

 L. Demers
-  School of Rehabilitation Université de Montréal Montréal, Quebec, Canada

 E. Di Giacomo
-  Department of Computer Engineering University of Perugia Perugia, Italy

 A. Eldridge
-  Division of Occupational Therapy School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences University of Queensland Brisbane St. Lucia, Queensland, Australia
-  Sciences

 S. Federici
-  Department of Human Science and Education University of Perugia Perugia, Italy
-  and
-  CIRID - Interdisciplinary Centre for Integrated Research on Disability Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 A. Gossett Zakrajsek
-  Occupational Therapy Program School of Health Sciences Eastern Michigan University Ypsilanti, Michigan

 M. Grasso
-  Department of Dynamic and Clinical Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 F. Greco
-  Department of Dynamic and Clinical Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 K. Hill
-  Performance and Testing Teaching Laboratory School of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

 M. Kurosu
-  Center of ICT and Distance Education Open University of Japan Chiba City, Japan
-  G. E. Lancioni Department of Psychology University of Bari Bari, Italy

 G. Liotta
-  Department of Computer Engineering University of Perugia Perugia, Italy

 A. Lo Presti
-  CIRID Interdisciplinary Centre for Integrated Research on Disability Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy
-  R. Magni Pragma Engineering Sr1 Perugia, Italy

G. Mascolo
-  External collaborator at the Department of Dynamic and Clinical Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy


=== Page 22 ===
 C. Mazzeschi
-  Department of Human Science and Education University of Perugia Perugia, Italy

 P. Mecocci
-  Institute of Gerontology and Geriatrics University of Perugia Perugia, Italy

 M. L. Mele
-  ECoNA—Interuniversity Centre for Research on Cognitive Processing in Natural and Artificial Systems Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 F. Meloni

 CIRID
-  Interdisciplinary Centre for Integrated Research on Disability, and Department of Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy
-  K. Miesenberger Institute Integriert Studieren University of Linz Linz, Austria

 M. Mirza
-  Institute for Healthcare Studies Northwestern University Chicago, Illinois

 M. Morris
-  Burton Blatt Institute Syracuse University Syracuse, New York
-  B. W. Mortenson School of Rehabilitation Université de Montréal Montréal, Quebec, Canada

 M. Olivetti Belardinelli
-  Department of Psychology and CIRID Interdisciplinary Centre for Integrated Research on Disability Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy
-  and
-  ECoNA Interuniversity Center for Research in Cognitive Processing in Natural and Artificial Systems, and Department of Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

 D. Oliva
-  Lega F. D’Oro Research Center Osimo, Italy

 M. F. O’Reilly
-  Meadows Center for Preventing Educational Risk University of Texas at Austin Austin, Texas
-  M. Orlandi Vision Research Center of Rome Rome, Italy

 E. Pasqualotto
-  Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology Eberhard-Karls University Tübingen, Germany

M. Pigliautile
-  Institute of Gerontology and Geriatrics University of Perugia Perugia, Italy
-  and
-  Department of Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy


=== Page 23 ===
 
-  xxii
-  Pediatric Rehabilitation Divisison SARAH Network of Neurorehabilitation Hospitals Brasilia, Brazil

 D. Samant
-  Burton Blatt Institute Syracuse University Syracuse, New York

 M. J. Scherer
-  Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc. Webster, New York
-  and
-  Burton Blatt Institute Syracuse University Syracuse, New York
-  Clinical Research Division SARAH Network of Neurorehabilitation Hospitals Brasilia, Brazil

 J. Sigafoos
-  School of Psychology and Pedagogy Victoria University of Wellington Wellington, New Zealand

 N. N. Singh
-  American Health and Wellness Institute Verona, Virginia

 C. H. P. Sit
-  Institute of Human Performance University of Hong Kong Hong Kong, China
-  and
-  Department of Sports Science and Physical Education Chinese University of Hong Kong, China

 A. Stella
-  Department of Comparative Cultures University for Foreigners Perugia, Italy
-  L. Tiberio Institute for Cognitive Science and Technologies National Research Council of Italy Rome, Italy

 B. Turella
-  Department of Psychology Sapienza University of Rome Rome, Italy

P. M. Wielandt
-  Department of Occupational Therapy School of Health & Human Services Central Queensland University Rockhampton, Australia
-  S. Zapf Children’s Journey to Shine, Inc. Houston, Texas


=== Page 24 ===
 The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions
-  S. Federici and M. J. Scherer

Introduction
-  As a part of the human condition, “Disability is complex, dynamic, multidimensional, and contested” (WHO and World Bank 2011, p. 3). The concept of disability conveys a very wide set of different and correlated issues: from disability models to individual functioning and its measurement, from social barriers to the digital divide, from the objective quality of life to subjective experience, to concepts of functioning, activity and participation, human rights and poverty, health and well-being, morbidity, and quality of life (WHO and World Bank 2011). Because of the multidimensionality of disability, the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF) would like to make clear that disability (and its correlated term “functioning”) must be understood as an umbrella term, “encompassing all body functions, activities and participation” (WHO 2001, p. 3).
-  Disability’s multidimensionality and complexity entails a kind of “definitional paradox” (Madans and Altman 2006): On the one hand, any theoretical definition of disability implies aporia, and on the other hand, operational meaning is determined by the purpose of research. In fact, Mont explains:
-  [If] each domain represents a different area of measurement and each category or ele- ment of classification within each domain represents a different area of operationaliza- tion of the broader domain concept, [then] to generate a meaningful general prevalence measure one must determine which component best reflects the information needed to address the purpose of the data collection. (2007, p. 4)


=== Page 25 ===
 
-  In other words, disability is a multidimensional construct because its measurement is multidimensional and it cannot be held to a “gold standard” valid for any context and for any purpose. The only appropriate measure is the one that best suits the purpose and the context to which it is addressed and not to the concept of disability in the abstract. Moreover, the variety of measurement tools and the flexibility to change the measurement procedures, adapting them to different people, contexts, and purposes, provide the most reliable scientific approach.
-  Madans and colleagues identify, at the aggregate level, three main classes of reasons for measuring (see Chapter 2). Here, “providing services” (2002, slide 11)—including the development of programs and policies for service provision and their evaluation—is the first among the three classes. More specifically, the assistive technology assessment (ATA) process can be viewed as one aspect of the first-mentioned class.
-  Assitive technology (AT)* plays a key and fundamental role in facilitating the social integration and participation of people with physical, sensory, communication, and cog- nitive disabilities. The process of matching AT and person requires a well-designed and well-researched sequential set of assessments administered by professionals with differ- ent areas of expertise: The success of the matching is strongly affected by the evaluation protocol/model and by the skills of the multidisciplinary team members. For this reason, the first section opens the present handbook, providing readers with useful guidelines to develop a set of functioning and disability screening tools for assessment in a center for technical aid. The authors of Sections I and II embrace the model proposed as follows.

The Assistive Technology Assessment Model
-  The introduction of AT into people’s lives is a delicate and long-term process, which presupposes teamwork as much as professionalism, time, and experience. The aim of the ATA model is to suggest guidelines to follow to reach valid results during the AT selection and assignment process. The ATA process that has emerged is the result of the integration of


=== Page 26 ===
 
-  Section I: The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions
-  The new model is the result of a decennial collaboration among the Sapienza University of Rome and the University of Perugia (Italy), the Institute for Matching Person and Technology of Webster (NY, United States), and the Leonarda Vaccari Institute in Rome (Italy). In that period various processes have been integrated within the biopsychosocial model of the ICF. The theoretical model created by these processes was shared with all of the authors of the guide (professionals and researchers studying AT/aids from many nationalities) that have been able to verify it and integrate it through the analysis of the processes existing in real life. The proposed model that is presented here is therefore the result of cross-cultural studies, both clinical and experimental, collected during this long- standing cooperation. This model, far from seeking to prefigure a “gold standard,” instead sought to create a structure that allows one to build or to change the existing processes so that they can consider more variables, such as the nature of disability, personal motivation and enthusiasm of the person with a disability and family members, and social and political context and availability of human and financial resources within user-driven processes and in the context of the biopsychosocial model of the ICF.

The ATA Process Under the Lens of the ICF Biopsychosocial Model
-  The ICF (WHO 2001) and ICF-CY (WHO 2007) provide a unified standard framework for an ATA process in centers for technical aid, allowing them to seek the best match of user/client-assistive solution by means of a comprehensive set of clinical measures, functional analysis (see Chapter 3 and 4), and psycho-socio-environmental evaluations (see Chapter 5). The best assistive solution can be achieved only by taking into account the specific context of use, with the AT as a mediator of quality of life: In this way, the ATA process, whether from the perspective of the user/client or from the perspective of the center for technical aid, must be read under the ICF biopsychosocial model (Figure I.1). Both the user’s perspective and the actions of the centre for technical aid are illustrated as follows:


=== Page 27 ===
FIGURE I.1
-  (See color insert.) Flow chart of Assistive Technology Assessment (ATA) process in a Centre for technical aid: The ATA process can be read both from the perspective of the user/client or from the perspective of the Centre for Technical Aid. In the central column are indicated the ATA components. Numbered button signs refer to the chapter in Section I. Their position in the flow chart show an ideal matching with the ATA process.


=== Page 28 ===
 
-  Section I: The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions

AT Abandonment: The Service Delivery System in Different Countries
-  The most relevant studies on AT abandonment (Philips and Zhao 1993; Scherer 1996; Kittel et al. 2002; Scherer et al. 2004, 2005; Dijcks et al. 2006; Verza et al. 2006; Federici and Borsci 2011) have been effected in different contexts with different national service delivery sys- tems* (Stack et al. 2009; Estreen 2010; Mathiassen 2010). In some cases, such national ser- vice delivery systems have been divided according to the model underlying the service delivery itself: medical-oriented model, social-oriented Model, or client-oriented Model (Stack et al. 2009). On the other hand, the service delivery process has been analyzed by others from the public or private health service point of view so that we can distinguish among private insurances, donations, and direct acquisition (Estreen 2010). As an example, Table I.1 quotes the service delivery systems and models of some countries from which the previously mentioned works originate.


=== Page 29 ===
TABLE I.1
-  Service Delivery System and Model
-  Country Australia Private system Consumerc Austria Public system and private system for Social and medical self-employed Denmark Public system (health and municipalities) Social Finland Public system (health) Medical France Public system Medical, social, and consumer Germany Private system and partially public system Medical and social Greece Public and private system Medical and consumer Italy Public system (health) Medical and social Netherlands Private and public system Medical and social Norway Public system (municipality) Medical Spain Public system (health and social by regions) Social, medical, and consumer Sweden Public system (health and county councils Medical and municipalities) United Kingdom Private and public system (health and social) Medical, social, and consumer
-  In almost all cases, the AT for schools in the private system is managed with a public service delivery system.
-  In general, we can observe that in European countries, a public health system is more diffused where the person with a disability is considered a patient/user. Inside of these systems, the person who effects the matching does not sell AT but acts as an intermediary between the patient/user and the AT societies by providing an assessment and support service. In Anglo-Saxon countries (such as the United States and Australia), it may occur that the person with a disability is considered a client inside of a private system, to which the assessment center will sell some products. The first model ensures more neutrality in assessing the best AT matching; the second model fosters a user-centered satisfaction with the best matched product. In general, when there is a public system, the financing is bound to a “prescription” effected by a specialist. Moreover, the doctor who prescribes must carry out many duties that, in reality, should be the competence of other experts: engineers, psychotechnologists, psychologists, psychotherapists, etc. On the other hand, in the private service, the client may benefit from well-prepared professionals but without having the necessary services at their disposal. Notwithstanding the diversity of service delivery systems (public/private), recent studies prove that both systems share high AT abandonment percentages—between 12% and 38%, with some exceptions for certain types of devices, such as electric wheelchairs, for which the abandonment rates can be as little as 5% (Wressle and Samuelsson 2004)—a high degree of user dissatisfaction, and a large waste of money. All of this induces the scholars of this sector to pursue a critical elaboration of ATA process models, which, starting from the modeling of the preexisting services, allows us to develop some guidelines to optimize the matching process (Ripat and Booth 2005).


=== Page 30 ===
 
-  Section I: The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions

Presentation of the Chapters of Section I
-  The chapters presented in this section aim to discuss both features and different aspects of the ATA process to set up a standard structure that can be shared among the centers for technical aid that aims to reduce both the abandonment and disuse of their assigned assistive technologies. Specifically, in Chapter 1, “Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability,” the authors present an overview of the historical evolution of different models of disability, from the medical to biopsychosocial, to explain the theoretical background underlying the ATA process. The biopsychosocial (or universal) model embraced by the ICF is deepened here: From this new perspective, the concepts of “functioning” and “disability” are redefined in reference to the complex interaction between personal and environmental factors. Under the lenses of this holistic model, the authors aim to explain the function of assistive solutions, which are conceived here as a mediator between the multidimensionality of the specific health conditions of an individual and their effective functioning in the ATA process (see also Section III).
-  A close examination of the role of individual functioning, and how to measure it, is presented in Chapter 2, “Measuring Individual Functioning.” The authors discuss both issues and principles related to the measurement of the individual functioning with special attention to its application to the ATA process. Starting from a discussion of the complexity of the definition of disability, the authors suggest different guiding principles to help professionals work on centers for technical aid in choosing and applying the set of measures that better fit with the aims of the ATA process. Different measures for clinical, functional, and psycho-socio-environmental factors are suggested here for the different evaluation steps of the ATA process. Different tools and techniques are presented to facilitate the multidisciplinary team-building process by means of the characterization of each profession required during the assessment (and measurement) process, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the well-being of the user/client (see also Section II).
-  In Chapter 3, “Measuring the Assistive Technology Match,” the problem of measurement in the matching process between user and AT is discussed. In the first paragraph, the authors focus on the description of two models, the MPT (Figure I.2; Scherer 1998, 2005) and the ICF models, to provide a comprehensive overview of the main standard frameworks of measures and tools currently being used. The aim of this work is to explain how the ATA process is integrated with the MPT model to achieve the best assistive solution because they both share a user-driven approach under the biopsychosocial model of the ICF (see also Section III).
-  The relation among environment, accessibility, usability, and sustainability between a user and an AT is explained in Chapter 4, “The Assessment of the Environments of Use: Accessibility, Sustainability, and Universal Design.” In this chapter, an UX model and the environment evaluation model are discussed as two of the main important steps in the ATA process. Moreover, the environmental assessment in the ATA process is both introduced and exemplified as a step-by-step decision-making process set up by the multidisciplinary team for collecting data about the environment(s) of use, in which the users go to work with the AT (see also Sections II and III).
-  Chapter 5, “Measuring the Impact of AT on Family Caregivers,” concludes this section. It gives an overview of the literature about the impact of AT on informal caregivers of children and adults and describes the relationship among outcomes for assistance users, their informal caregivers, and the related assistive solutions. By means of two hypothetical illustrative vignettes, this chapter aims both to provide recommendations for practice and suggest future developments in this field.


=== Page 31 ===
 FIGURE I.2
-  The matching person and technology model (Scherer, 2005). The “Match of Person and AT” (the smallest circle) equals the assistive solution when quality of life and well-being raise from.
-  Chapters of Section I

Conclusions
-  The ATA is a user-driven process through which the selection of one or more technological aids for an assistive solution is facilitated by the comprehensive utilization of clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socio-environmental evaluations that address, in a specific context of use, the personal well-being of the user through the best matching of


=== Page 32 ===
 
-  Section I: The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions
-  user/client and assistive solution. Because the assistive solution represents the outcome of a user-driven process aimed toward the improvement of individual functioning, it can be considered as a mediator of quality of life and well-being in a specific context of use. For these reasons, it is important to underscore that the assistive solution does not coincide with AT because the first one is a complex system in which psycho-socio-environmental factors and AT interact in a nonlinear way by reducing activity limitations and participation restrictions by means of one or more technologies.
-  The definition of ATA represents the core definition of this handbook, summarizing the properties of the ATA process. All of the chapters in the section first refer to this definition and follow a guiding reference model (see Figure I.1).

References


=== Page 34 ===
 Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability
-  S. Federici, M. J. Scherer, F. Meloni, F. Corradi, M. Adya, D. Samant, M. Morris, and A. Stella

 CONTENTS
-  Classification, Declaration, and International Definitions of Functioning and Disability ...............................................................................................................................13 Where Individual Functioning and Disability Are Assessed: Assistive and Rehabilitation Technology Service Delivery Models .....................................................16 1.3.1 Charity-Based Models .............................................................................................17 1.3.2 Community-Based Rehabilitation Models ...........................................................17 1.3.3 Individual Empowerment Models ........................................................................17 1.3.4 Entrepreneurial Models ..........................................................................................17 1.3.5 Globalization Model ................................................................................................18 1.3.6 Universal Design Models........................................................................................18 Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability in the ATA Process .......................20

1.1 The Universal Model of Disability
-  The origins of the biopsychosocial model date back to the proposal put forward by psy- chiatrist George Engel in 1977 to integrate within the medical model the dominant social and psychological variables:
-  The dominant model of disease today is biomedical, and it leaves no room within its framework for the social, psychological, and behavioural dimensions of illness. A bio- psychosocial model is proposed that provides a blueprint for research, a framework for teaching, and a design for action in the real world of health care. (1977, p. 130)
-  Engel made the leading theoretical contribution to building the biopsychosocial model, identified in von Bertalanffy’s general systems theory (von Bertalanffy 1950). According to this approach, the unifying principles in the scientific context are not a reduction of but the organization that explains a scientific phenomenon. It is not sufficient to divide a scientific phenomenon into a simpler unit of analysis and study such units one by one, but it is necessary to study the interrelations among these units. We contrast the old scientific method, which refuses all forms of teleology and is based on linear causality and relations
-  11


=== Page 35 ===

-  between an independent variable and a dependent variable. On the contrary, we claim an approach that examines the interrelations among many variables, some of them unknown, and takes into consideration the organicistic characters of life and considers concepts such as order, organization, differentiation, and orientation to a purpose. As a result, human beings are also seen as systems ecologically plunged into multiple systems (Gray et al. 1969). In the biopsychosocial model, the definition of the state of health or illness is there- fore the outcome of the interaction of processes that operate at the macro level (e.g., the existence of social support for depression) and the processes that operate at the micro level (e.g., biological or biochemical derangements).
-  Thus, it is impossible from this perspective to isolate disability from the functioning of an individual and vice versa, or rather hypothesize one without the other, not only at the level of social organization but also at the level of a single individual. Disability implies functioning and vice versa. When I. K. Zola in “Toward the Necessary Universalizing of a Disability Policy” (1989) expresses hope for the demystification of the “specialness” of disability and the admission that “people with a disability have long been treated as an oppressed minority” (p. 19), he assumes a conception of disability that is fluid and con- textual: “Disability is not a human attribute that demarks one portion of humanity from another (as gender does, and race sometimes does); it is an infinitely various but universal feature of the human condition” (Bickenbach et al. 1999, p. 1182). The issue of disability for individuals “is not whether but when, not so much which one, but how many and in what combination” (Zola 1993, p. 18).
-  There is not, according to Zola’s approach that is close to the biopsychosocial model, a dichotomy between ability and disability, but rather a continuum in which complete abil- ity or complete disability represent nothing but a borderline case possible only in theory. The unique borders to delineate on this continuum should have political and economic purposes and produce functional distinctions to redistribute resources within society. Evidently, we are talking about boundaries that could be criticized and modifiable in the course of time. According to Zola, developing “universal policies” is a matter of urgency that recognizes an indisputable fact: the entire population is “at risk” because of the extraordinary concomitance of chronic illnesses and disability (1989, p. 1). Beyond a uni- versal perspective, we seriously risk creating and perpetuating a model of segregated and separated society, which is also characterized by a progressive accentuation of inequalities:
-  Only when we acknowledge the near universality of disability and that all its dimen- sions (including the biomedical) are part of the social process by which the meanings of disability are negotiated will it be possible fully to appreciate how general public policy can affect this issue. (Zola 1989, p. 20)
-  The rapid aging of the world population, now more than ever before, confirms what Zola claimed. In most of the World Health Organization’s (WHO) recent documents, the spread of disability as a condition correlates with the progressive aging of the population is dra- matically shown:
-  Life expectancy is increasing in most countries in the Region and the populations are therefore ageing rapidly. In 2050, one third of the population is projected to be 60 years and older. […] Whereas much of old age is a healthy period, there may be ill health, which leads to disability and dependence, especially in late old age (WHO 2011, p. viii);
-  Global ageing has a major influence on disability trends. The relationship here is straightforward: there is higher risk of disability at older ages, and national populations are ageing at unprecedented rates (WHO and World Bank 2011, p. 35).


=== Page 36 ===
 
-  Moreover, disability belongs to the human condition not only on a biological level but also on a cultural one because “across the world, people with disabilities have poorer health outcomes, lower education achievements, less economic participation and higher rates of poverty than people without” (WHO and World Bank 2011, p. xi). According to the recent World Report on Disability, it estimates that between 110 and 190 million people (from 2.2 to 3.8%) have very significant difficulties in functioning (WHO and World Bank 2011, p. 44).

1.2 Classification, Declaration, and International Definitions of Functioning and Disability
-  In the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF; WHO 2001), conceptually founded on the biopsychosocial or universal model, an interactive model (holistic) is proposed. In this model, a person’s functioning and disability are considered to be the product of the dynamic interaction between health conditions and contextual factors, which include personal factors as well as environmental ones. In the ICF, concepts such as “functioning” and “disability” are defined in reference to the relation between an individual and his or her context, or rather the complex interaction between personal and environmental factors: “A person’s functioning and disability is conceived as a dynamic interaction between health conditions (diseases, disorders, injuries, traumas, etc.) and con- textual factors” (WHO 2001, p. 8).
-  Actually, it is impossible to talk about a person’s functioning and disability as if he or she lived in a social, cultural, political, and economic vacuum. This vacuum is filled by the introduction of the contextual factors in the ICF’s biopsychosocial inter-relational model of disability. The multidimensionality of the ICF is guaranteed by the fact that contextual factors are a basic and integral component of the human functioning model based on the classification, body functions and structures, and activity and partici- pation. The positive aspects of the relationship between an individual and his or her context are defined by the umbrella term “functioning,” by which we mean all nonprob- lematic or positive aspects of health and health-related individual conditions. On the other hand, all negative aspects that characterize the relationship between an individual and his or her context are defined by the umbrella term “disability.” Both terms have in the classification a neutral meaning (or rather are meant as traced back to their original semantic value) beyond any possible social-cultural encrustation that justifies their use
-  Overall, the ICF individuates four components related to human functioning and its restrictions: the functioning and disability components, subdivided into i) body func- tions and structures and ii) activities and participation, and the contextual factor com- ponents, which encompass iii) personal and iv) environmental factors. Each component consists of different constructs or qualifiers and is subdivided into domains and cat- egories at different levels. Health and health-related states may be classified using an alphanumeric code system: b = body functions, s = body structures, d = activities and participation, and e = environmental factors. Separated by a dot, on the right of the alphanumeric codes, the ICF requires the use of one or more qualifiers, which denote, for example, the magnitude of the level of health or severity of the problem at issue (WHO 2001, Annex 2).


=== Page 37 ===

-  In accordance with the biopsychosocial model and the ICF, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities adopted on December 13, 2006, by the General Assembly of the United Nations resolution (hereafter Convention) recognizes that:
-  Disability is an evolving concept and that disability results from the interaction between persons with impairments and attitudinal and environmental barriers that hinders their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others … [and hopes for:] (a) Respect for inherent dignity, individual autonomy including the free- dom to make one’s own choices, and independence of persons; (b) Non-discrimination; (c) Full and effective participation and inclusion in society; (d) Respect for difference and acceptance of persons with disabilities as part of human diversity and humanity; (e) Equality of opportunity; (f) Accessibility; (g) Equality between men and women; (h) Respect for the evolving capacities of children with disabilities and respect for the right of children with disabilities to preserve their identities. (UN 2006, Preamble)
-  By founding a concept of disability marked by the international value of human rights, the universal value of the Convention seems to have heeded the wishes of the late Irving Zola regarding the need for a shared approach to policies on disability at the international level. From this perspective: “human rights are applicable to everyone, and to everyone equally, independently of all contingent differences between people—race, religion, language, cul- ture, geographical location, and so on, including disability” (Bickenbach 2009, p. 1112). The unique criterion to be recognized as a beneficiary of a human right is, precisely, that of the human race. Nonetheless, it is undeniable that such a perspective questions several practical issues concerning its application to different human cultures. The concept of disability and functioning are socially constructed, or rather, the meaning of both terms is enriched with different values and denote cross-cultural differences:
-  What it means to be disabled, in short, fundamentally includes what it means to be viewed as disabled by others, and this is contingent on features of one’s society, system of economic exchange, culture, language and many other things besides. (Bickenbach 2009, p. 1112)
-  Thus, risks of incommunicability or mutual misunderstanding between individuals and institutions from different social, cultural, and political contexts are anything but unre- alistic. The possibility of such incommunicability is manifested, at a theoretical level, in the opposition of two different radicalisms: on the one hand, the absolutism of rights and, on the other, cultural relativism. For political reasons the Convention avoided adopting clearly defined terms or excessively binding statements in defining disability. Nonetheless, it seems clear that the Convention is based on the ICF from an epidemiological and an operational viewpoint. Indeed, the ICF and the Convention share
-  The core idea […] that disability is the outcome of, often extremely complex and little understood, interactive relationships between intrinsic features of the person (which, in the ICF are understood as aspects of the person’s health state) and features of the overall context in which person lives, works, and interacts with others. Environmental factors, the constituent elements of this context, are not only natural and physical, but also atti- tudinal, structural, political, social and cultural. (Bickenbach 2009, p. 1121)
-  Just taking into account the disability concepts of complex interaction, claimed by the ICF (2001) and the Convention (UN 2006) and more recently by the World Report on Disability


=== Page 38 ===

-  (WHO and World Bank 2011), it is possible to overcome the aporia of approaches radically opposed:
-  As cultural differences are examples of environmental factors that are productive of kinds and levels of disability it is essential to take them into account in practice. A health practitioner cannot understand the nature and severity of the disability of a client without understanding the client’s environmental context, including his or her cultural differences. Whether these differences actually make a difference in either the nature or severity of the disability is a practical and empirical question that needs to be answered on a case-by-case basis. (Bickenbach 2009, p. 1121)
-  In other words, the conflict is not in the contents (i.e., it does not concern the rightness of both engaged positions), but rather in the political and/or ideological radicalism of both:
-  I argue that the conflict between universalism of rights and cultural sensitivity exist only if these positions are expressed in extreme form: rights absolutism and cultural relativity. If more sensibly spelled out—in the form of progressive realisation of rights and situational sensitivity of difference—there is no conflict at all. Indeed, these more reasonable positions are mutually supportive. (Bickenbach 2009, p. 1111)
-  It is now an unquestioned fact that the seriousness of a disability as well as the level of an individual’s functioning are largely determined by the context in which the individual lives. The cultural sensitivity, given the universal foundation of human rights, is an opera- tive horizon to which all professionals of rehabilitation should pay attention.
-  The necessity of better measurements of the effects of environmental factors, to improve the rehabilitation outcome and, therefore, the well-being and satisfaction of a person with a disability and the quality of life achieved, led to the implementation of more and more accurate models of functioning. Concerning this, it is of a great importance that the 2002 American Association on Mental Retardation’s (AAMR) Definition, Classification, and System of Supports, the 2002 System (Luckasson et al. 2002), aimed to pick out a shared assessment model of assistive technologies. Beyond the specificity of the intellectual disability (pre- ferred term to “mental retardation”) the relevance of the 2002 System’s model lies in the fact that “support” is considered a basic element of mediation between the multidimen- sional features of disability (i.e., in this specific case, the intellectual one) and individual functioning. The 2002 System recognizes as a common basis, as does the ICF, the biomedi- cal, functional, and ecological aspects of disability. Both tools, by defining the disability in terms of functional and ecological outlook, represent the raising of a new paradigm that has “its focus on functional skills, personal well-being, the provision of individualized supports, and the concept of personal competence (that is enhanced through skill acquisi- tion, environmental modification, and/or use of prosthetics)” (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, p. 137).
-  In the 2002 System, the basic meanings are represented by human beings, the envi- ronment, and supports. Such meanings explain the condition of disability and individ- ual functioning. In particular, the dimensions by which human functioning is defined are intellectual abilities; adaptive behavior; participation, interaction, and social roles; health; and context. The supports, defined as “resources and strategies that aim to pro- mote the development, education, interests, and personal well-being of a person and that enhance individual functioning” (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, p. 142), are inte- grated in the 2002 System relating four aspects: first, the individual functioning is the


=== Page 39 ===

-  result of the interaction between the disability dimension and supports; second, giving support to people improves their independence, relationships, social participation, and global well-being; third, the assessment and selection of supports are carried out by tak- ing into consideration the aspects and domains of a person’s daily life; and fourth, the supports defined as “services” are one type of support provided by professionals and agencies. Also the concept of support, like others, is culturally determined and there- fore subject to cultural variability in relation to the importance of rehabilitative practice and use, although Schalock and Luckasson highlight that its “conceptual and practical link to assessment is widely observed” (2004, p. 143). It is, then, in the relationship that entails individualized support to the assessment process that we can reach the goal of a diagnosis (i.e., the intervention) so that the primary purpose of diagnosis is intervention (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, p. 143).
-  The current literature base demonstrates that the appropriate strategy for the design and distribution of assistive technology (AT) depends on many factors, including the availabil- ity of personnel, raw materials, and device parts, and the interaction of all of these factors can complicate AT service delivery models. Health-care workers and policy-makers need a knowledge base in the extant ways that AT may be provided to end-users to improve their well-being and participation. The issue is multivariate and complex and various models have begun to be developed that encourage innovation and service delivery. The exten- sive variety of models may be captured in six overarching categories, but each of these categories is general and made up of many more subcategories of models. In addition, these categories are not perfectly discrete, but rather they are hybridized or “multimodal” types of models that overlap. Nevertheless, the following six overarching categories are an important way to conceptualize the universe of transferring AT to persons with disabili- ties (Adya et al., in review):


=== Page 40 ===
 
-  Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability

 1.3.1 Charity-Based Models
-  Charity-based programs have been used for decades as a means to provide individuals with material products that they could not access because of their socioeconomic and envi- ronmental conditions. Past programs have engaged in mass distribution of different types of AT, including mobility devices and hearing aids. Charities engage in different activities such as developing low-cost prototypes available for free, fundraising to finance the deliv- ery of AT, and refurbishing and recycling of old AT devices. Although mass distributions of AT can be helpful at times, such as when a conflict or disaster results in many acquired disabilities, they often involve products designed with the one-size-fits-all approach, which cannot be customized to the needs of the consumers and their environments, or they have low-quality designs that can lead to secondary injuries and wounds.

 1.3.2 Community-Based Rehabilitation Models
-  Community-based rehabilitation (CBR) was conceptualized and promoted by WHO and related United Nations (UN) agencies in the early 1980s as a means of providing services to people with disabilities in developing countries who had no access to quality rehabilita- tive facilities, physicians, and other qualified personnel. The original rationale behind CBR was to circumvent the need for expensive institutional care and a lack of government sup- port by providing cost-effective rehabilitation services to people with disabilities within their own homes and communities. Although its inception focused on the need for medical rehabilitative care, it has evolved because of a realization that rehabilitation aimed at pro- moting independent functioning has to respond to the need for securing equal rights and access to services such as education, employment, health services, and public services and facilities. Because CBR works on the principle of finding solutions through locally available resources, most AT delivered through CBR programs are designed to be affordable, made with locally available materials, and appropriate to the environment of the consumer.

 1.3.3 Individual Empowerment Models
-  In individual empowerment models, consumers “partner” with providers in product eval- uation and selection as professionals strive to individualize services, help people achieve their self-determined goals, and ensure people are included in all aspects of community life. To achieve a good match of person and technology and improved rates of optimal AT use, it is important that the potential technology user be paired with a well-informed provider.

1.3.4 Entrepreneurial Models
-  Entrepreneurial models promote the availability of AT through commercialization, and this transfer of technology can occur using either top-down or bottom-up approaches. In the top-down entrepreneurial model, the technology solution is brought into the local market by a foreign or external entity. Top-down distribution of AT can also include local franchising and adaptation to the local culture.


=== Page 41 ===
 1.3.5 Globalization Model
-  Globalization models refer to the expansion of multinational and international compa- nies into new markets in resource-limited environments to create new supply chains for the delivery of technology solutions that may or may not be adapted to local needs. Manufacturing in most globalization models is done in-country at a large scale. Solutions can be designed in collaboration with international, national, and local designers. It has to be noted that this model is mainly suited for the one-size-fits-all solutions, even when they are adapted to local context and needs.

 1.3.6 Universal Design Models
-  The universal design approach is based on the understanding that designing products to match a mythical average of human abilities and conditions is in conflict with the fact that all human users are diverse and experience different personal and environmental circum- stances. Inaccessible mainstream products and services designed with a focus on a narrow subset of human functioning, such as information and communication technologies (ICT), medical equipment, and physical infrastructure can impose significant barriers on people with disabilities and people who are aging. Universally designed public use products and infrastructure are also necessary to ensure that people with disabilities have equal access to all activities irrespective of the existence of AT because many times individuals cannot use mainstream technologies that do not match their AT devices.

1.4 Assessing Individual Functioning Within a Rehabilitation Process
-  The international scientific literature presents a wide variety of rehabilitation models from different authors. Some of these models—generally elaborated in the last decade—are con- ceptually compatible with the universal approach to disability, the biopsychosocial model, and the ICF. The assessment process as a full evaluation of functioning and disability of an individual can be considered as an aspect of any rehabilitation process so that any reha- bilitation model encompasses an assessment model also. For this reason, before presenting the assistive technology assessment (ATA) process model of assessment, it might be useful to explore the most relevant models of rehabilitation described in the international scien- tific literature. Below some of the most important contributions to the conceptualization of a rehabilitation process are briefly described with a special focus on, when possible, the stage of the assessment.
-  Gracey and colleagues (2009) proposed a “Y-shaped” theoretical model in which to ground a rehabilitation intervention. The starting point of the authors is to identify a biopsychoso- cial approach to assessment, formulation, and rehabilitation after acquired brain damage. The result is an original theoretical synthesis of existing work drawn from rehabilitation and psychotherapy studies that is also helpful in clinical use. The process of adaptation and reintegration in society is determined by overcoming the social, personal, and interpersonal discrepancies—represented by the two branches of the Y—that often follow a traumatic event. The Y-shaped model is so called because the progressive move toward a new aware- ness and acceptance of existing health conditions is graphically represented by the conjunc- tion of the two branches of the Y. The process of awareness and resolution of discrepancies


=== Page 42 ===

-  made by the client must be supported to consolidate their postinjury sense of self and their psychological growth. The vertical trunk of the Y represents this part of the path. During the process, the client can discover aspects of continuity with the preinjury self and can develop new adaptive and personal meanings arising as a result of the injury and related experiences.
-  Gracey et al. (2009) suggest that at the very top of the Y, it is possible that many clients will experience a discrepancy by trying to keep a sense of identity through the negation of the difficulties. In the long run, this leads to the loss of relationships and social networks. Customers often deny the presence of difficulty, even with rehabilitation professionals. In the Y-shaped model, social and interpersonal factors can play a role in overcoming per- sonal discrepancies, in reaching a new awareness, and in developing coping resources. Nevertheless, findings from many studies suggest that the focus in rehabilitation may go beyond compensation for deficits and perhaps should more explicitly incorporate a focus on growth and personal meaning.
-  In the Y-shaped model, the key phases of the process of rehabilitation correspond to (1) the development of safety; (2) the understanding of, engagement with, and reduc- tion of social, interpersonal, and intrapersonal discrepancies; and (3) supporting psy- chological growth. For each key phase the authors (Gracey et al. 2009) identify the social, interpersonal, cognitive, and emotional variables involved and the corresponding reha- bilitation activities and strategies. In conclusion, the authors believe that the meaning of life experiences is key to well-being—psychosocial outcome measures that focus solely on the amount or level of activity might not reflect meaningful personal change for the individual.
-  Steiner and colleagues (2002) proposed the Rehab-CYCLE, a modified version of the Rehabilitation Cycle developed by Stucki and Sangha (1998). It leads the health-care pro- fessional with a logical sequence of activities to successful problem-solving or individual goals achieved. The Rehab-CYCLE identifies the patient’s problems and needs and relates the problems to relevant factors of the person and the environment. It is useful to define therapy goals, to plan and implement interventions, and to assess the effects.
-  To have a conceptual framework for ordering and understanding what disease means to a patient, the authors (Steiner et al. 2002) developed an extension of the Rehab-CYCLE (Stucki and Sangha 1998) that they called the “Rehabilitation Problem-Solving Form” (RPS-Form). The RPS-Form consists of a single datasheet that is based on the ICF. It is divided into three parts: (1) a header for basic information, (2) an upper part to describe the patient’s perspective, and (3) a lower part for the analysis of the health-care professionals. The RPS-Form is designed to distinguish between the perspectives held by the patient and those of the health-care professional. The patient’s view is recorded in the upper part of the form denoted with “Patient (or Relatives): Problems and Disabilities,” and the health- care professional’s views are noted in the lower part denoted with “Health Professionals: Mediators Relevant to Target Problems.” The rehabilitation team attempted to identify those characteristics of the patients or their environment that caused or contributed to their problems.
-  The multiple interactions between patient and environment and between all com- ponents of the patient’s organism require thinking in terms of causal networks rather than in straight lines where A causes B, which leads to C. When it is unclear whether a variable is directly responsible for a disability or whether it is an element that con- tributes to certain processes involved with the disability, the RPS-Form uses the term “mediator” to describe such variables (Steiner et al. 2002). The main task of the rehabili- tation team is to discern the target mediators (i.e., those mediators that are supposed


=== Page 43 ===
 
-  to have the greatest potential to solve the target problems) through the analysis of the RPS-Form as a basis for the team to discuss each case in the framework of the ICF model of functioning and disability.
-  model of functioning and disability. In 2002, the AAMR released its Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports (Luckasson et al. 2002) in which human functioning and intellectual abili- ties are described as influenced by five factors: (i) intelligence; (ii) adaptive behavior; (iii) participation, interaction, and social roles; (iv) health; and (v) context. Intelligence is defined as “a general mental ability that includes reasoning, planning, solving problems, thinking abstractly, comprehending complex ideas, learning quickly, and learning from experience” (Luckasson et al. 2002, p. 51). Adaptive behavior is defined as “the collec- tion of conceptual, social, and practical skills that have been learned by people in order to function in their everyday lives” (Luckasson et al. 2002, p. 73). The participation and interaction concern the degree of commitment of the person in daily activities and his or her involvement in the surrounding environment. Social roles regard the set of activi- ties that are considered normal for a specific age group. The definition of health, meant as a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being, is in line with the one determined by WHO. Finally, the context is a concept adapted from Bronfenbrenner’s theory (1979) and describes the relationships in which the person is involved, including “the person, family, and/or advocates; the neighborhood, community, or organization providing education or habilitation services or supports; and the overarching patterns of culture, society, larger populations, country, or sociopolitical influences” (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, p. 142). The 2002 System claims for the multidimensionality of the intel- lectual disability (ID) and assigns a central role to the supports as a mediator between the multidimensional aspects of ID and the individual functioning. In the 2002 System, “supports are defined as resources and strategies that aim to promote the development, education, interests, and personal well-being of a person and that enhance individual functioning” (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, p. 142) so that the individual functioning is determined by the interaction of the supports with the five dimensions listed earlier. The supports are provided with the main purpose of enhancing personal outcomes related to independence, relationships, contributions, school and community participation, and personal well-being of people with ID, and the assessment process is based on everyday life activity areas. An important aspect of the assessment process in the 2002 System is represented by the clinical judgment, defined as
-  A special type of judgment rooted in a high level of clinical expertise and experience that emerges directly from extensive data. It is based on the clinician’s explicit train- ing, direct experience with person with whom the clinician is working, and familiarity with the person and the person’s environment, including his/her family. (Schalock and Luckasson 2004, pp. 143–144)

1.5 Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability in the ATA Process
-  In the ATA process model, the assessment is defined as
-  A user-driven process through which the selection of one or more technological aids for an assistive solution is facilitated by the comprehensive utilization of clinical measures,


=== Page 44 ===
 
-  functional analysis, and psycho-socio-environmental evaluations that address, in a spe- cific context of use, the personal well-being of the user through the best matching of user/ client and assistive solution. (See Conclusions, Section I, this volume.)
-  Consistent with the ICF model of functioning and disability, the 2002 System, and the ATA process, the individual’s well-being is the rationale of intervention that is guaranteed by the best match between the user/client and the support or AT. Under the lens of the ICF biopsychosocial model, by the means of which the user/client’s request and the assistive solution is provided (Figure 1.1), the assessment process evaluates the individual’s func- tioning through “clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socio-environmental evaluations.” In particular (Figure 1.2), in the “User data collecting” step, the diagnosis has a central role in the assessment because it is in relation to the diagnosis that the following setup for matching and assessing tools are designed. However, it is only at the meeting with the user/client (matching process) that it is possible to observe the individual’s perfor- mance, evaluate their functioning in the most relevant aspects of daily life, and to person- alize the support by making reference to the socioenvironmental characteristic qualities or barriers (environmental assessment process) within the user/client’s life. Finally, the user support and follow-up procedures allow us to assess the functioning recursively and constantly weigh the outcome of assistive solutions in relation to the user’s needs and to the changes faced in the functioning domains of everyday life.
-  Thus, the role of mediation played by supports and assistive solutions between the multidimensionality of the specific health conditions of an individual and their effec- tive functioning in the ATA process seems quite evident. Nor it is to disregard, as a meta-dimensional process, the dynamic interaction between objective (the center for

FIGURE 1.1
-  (See color insert.) Assistive technology assessment under the lens of the ICF biopsychosocial model.


=== Page 45 ===

-  (See color insert.) The assistive technology assessment process flow chart.


=== Page 46 ===
 
-  technical aid column, Figure 1.2) and subjective (the user’s actions column, Figure 1.2), or rather between the objective and subjective functioning measurements. The features of this dynamic, within the assessment process, tie professionals of rehabilitation to finding solutions that take into consideration the social and cultural context of an individual.

 1.6 Conclusions
-  An ATA model is needed and proposed in this chapter that is consistent with the ICF in that it emphasizes the individual’s well-being and the best match between the user/client and the assistive solution. This requires a user-driven process through which the selection of one or more technological aids for an assistive solution is facilitated by the comprehensive use of clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socio-environmental evaluations.

 Summary of the Chapter
-  This chapter discusses the biopsychosocial model as operationalized by the WHO’s International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the 2002 AAMR Definition, Classification, and System of Supports, and most recently the World Report on Disability. A move from the medical to social view of disability requires that assistive technology professionals view disability as existing within a cultural, political, and economic milieu. International models of assistive technology service delivery are reviewed and the need for enhanced assessment of the person with a disability’s functioning is highlighted in order to achieve a good match of person and technology.

References


=== Page 48 ===

-  Section I: The Assistive Technology Assessment Model and Basic Definitions
-  Dijcks, B. P. J., De Witte, L. P., Gelderblom, G. J., Wessels, R. D., and Soede, M. (2006). Non-Use of Assistive Technology in the Netherlands: A Non-Issue? Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 1(1–2), 97–102. doi:10.1080/09638280500167548
-  Estreen, M. (2010). Europe with Free Choice of Assistive Technology. the Provision of Assistive Devices in Specific European Countries. Retrieved from www.hi.se/bestall
-  Federici, S., and Borsci, S. (2011). The use and non-use of assistive technology in Italy: A pilot study. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens, and K. Miesenberger (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011 (Vol. 29, pp. 979–986). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-979
-  Kittel, A., Di Marco, A., and Stewart, H. (2002). Factors Influencing the Decision to Abandon Manual Wheelchairs for Three Individuals with a Spinal Cord Injury. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1– 3), 106–114. doi:10.1080/0963828011006678 5
-  Madans, J. H., and Altman, B. M. (2006). Purposes of Disability Statistics. Paper presented at the Training Workshop on Disability Statistics for SPECA Countries: UN Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Retrieved from http://www.unece.org/ stats/documents/2006.12.health.htm
-  Madans, J. H., Altman, B. M., Rasch, E. K., Synneborn, M., Banda, J., Mbogoni, M., et al. (2002). Washington Group Position Paper: Proposed Purpose of an Internationally Comparable General Disability Measure. Retrieved from www.cdc.gov/nchs/ppt/citygroup/meeting3/WG3.6a%20 Madans_Altman.ppt
-  Mathiassen, N.-E. (2010). Assistive Technology: Service Delivery Systems, Presence and Future. [Aids and Solutions for Quality of Life in a Changing Society: Challenges and Opportunities]. Paper presented at the Ausili e soluzioni per la qualità della vita in una società che cambia: Sfide e opportunità, Bologna, Italy. Oral presentation retrieved from http://www.ausilioteca.org/


=== Page 49 ===

-  Mont, D. (2007). Measuring Disability Prevalence. Special Protection Discussion Paper No. 0706. Retrieved from
-  Philips, B., and Zhao, H. (1993). Predictors of Assistive Technology Abandonment. Assistive Technology, 5(1), 36–45. doi:10.1080/10400435.1993.10132205
-  Scherer, M. J. (1996). Outcomes of Assistive Technology Use on Quality of Life. Disability and Rehabilitation, 18(9), 439–448. doi:10.3109/09638289609165907
-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Cross-walking the ICF to a measure of Assistive Technology Predisposition and Use. Paper presented at the 11th Annual North American Collaborating Center (NACC) Conference on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), Rochester, NY, US.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. (2002). Matching Person & Technology (MPT) Assessment Process. Technology and Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/g0eft4mnlwly8y8g
-  Scherer, M. J., Cushman, L. A., and Federici, S. (2004, June 1–10). Measuring Participation and the Disability Experience with the “Assistive Technology Device Predisposition Assessment”. Paper presented at the North American Collaborating Center 10th Annual Conference on ICF: NACC 2004, Halifax, Canada. Retrieved from http://secure.cihi.ca/cihiweb/en/downloads/10NACC_ Conf_Report_FINAL_e.pdf
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of Assistive Technology Use: The Importance of Personal and Psychosocial Factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Stack, J., Zarate, L., Pastor, C., Mathiassen, N.-E., Barberà, R., Knops, H., et al. (2009). Analysing and Federating the European Assistive Technology ICT industry. Final Report. Retrieved from European Commission website: http://ec.europa.eu/einclusion


=== Page 50 ===

-  United States Congress. (2004). Assistive Technology Act (Public Law 108–364). Retrieved from http:// www.ataporg.org/atap/atact_law.pdf.
-  Verza, R., Carvalho, M. L. L., Battaglia, M. A., and Uccelli, M. M. (2006). An Interdisciplinary Approach to Evaluating the Need for Assistive Technology Reduces Equipment Abandonment. Multiple Sclerosis, 12(1), 88–93. doi:10.1191/1352458506ms1233oa
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2004). A Glossary of Terms for Community Health Care and Services for Older Persons. (WHO/WKC/Tech.Ser./04.2). Retrieved from http://whqlibdoc.who.int/ wkc/2004/WHO_WKC_Tech.Ser._04.2.pdf
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2007). ICF-CY: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health—Children and Youth Version. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Wressle, E., and Samuelsson, K. (2004). User Satisfaction with Mobility Assistive Devices. Scandinavian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 11(3), 143–150. doi:10.1080/11038120410020728


=== Page 51 ===
1 1. Assessing Individual Functioning and Disability
-  Adya, M., Samant, D., Mofris, M., and Scherer, M. (in review). Assistive/Rehabilitation Technology, Disability, and Service Delivery Models. Disability and Rehabilitation.
-  Bickenbach, J. E. (2009). Disability, culture and the UN convention. Disability and Rehabilitation, 31(14), 1111–1124. doi:10.1080/09638280902773729
-  Bickenbach, J. E., Chatterji, S., Badley, E. M., and Üstün, T. B. (1999). Models of disablement, universalism and the international classification of impairments, disabilities and handicaps. Social Science and Medicine, 48(9), 1173–1187. doi:10.1016/S0277-9536(98)00441-9
-  Bronfenbrenner, U. (1979). The Ecology of Human Development: Experiments by Nature and Design. Cambridge, MS: Harvard University Press.
-  Engel, G. L. (1977). The need for a new medical model: A challenge for biomedicine. Science, 196(4286), 129–136. doi:10.1126/science.847460
-  Gracey, F., Evans, J. J., and Malley, D. (2009). Capturing process and outcome in complex rehabilitation interventions: A “Y-shaped” model. Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, 19(6), 867–890. doi:10.1080/09602010903027763
-  Gray, W., Duhl, F. J., and Rizzo, N. D. (1969). General Systems Theory and Psychiatry. Boston: Little Brown.
-  Luckasson, R., Borthwick-Duffy, S., Buntinx, W. H. E., Coulter, D. L., Craig, E. M., Reeve, A., et al. (2002). Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification, and System of Supports (10th ed.). Washington, DC: AAMR.
-  Schalock, R. L., and Luckasson, R. (2004). American Association on Mental Retardation’s Definition, Classification, and System of Supports and its relation to international trends and issues in the field of intellectual disabilities. Journal of Policy and Practice in Intellectual Disabilities, 1(3–4), 136–146. doi:10.1111/j.1741-1130.2004.04028.x
-  Steiner, W. A., Ryser, L., Huber, E., Uebelhart, D., Aeschlimann, A., and Stucki, G. (2002). Use of the ICF model as a clinical problem-solving tool in physical


=== Page 52 ===

-  therapy and rehabilitation medicine. Physical Therapy, 82(11), 1098–1107.
-  Stucki, G., and Sangha, O. (1998). Principles of rehabilitation. In J. H. Klippel and P. A. Dieppe (Eds.), Rheumatology (pp. 11.11–11.14). London: Mosby.
-  United Nations (UN). (2006). Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. (A/RES/61/106). New York: UN Retrieved from http://www.un-documents.net/a61r106.htm.
-  von Bertalanffy, L. (1950). An outline of general system theory. The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science, 1(2), 134–165. doi:10.1093/bjps/I.2.134
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2011). European Report on Preventing Elder Maltreatment. Retrieved from
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zola, I. K. (1989). Toward the necessary universalizing of a disability policy. Milbank Quarterly, 67(Suppl 2 Pt. 2), 401–428. doi:10.2307/3350151
-  Zola, I. K. (1993). Disability statistics, what we count and what it tells us: A personal and political analysis. Journal of Disability Policy Studies, 4(2), 9–39. doi:10.1177/104420739300400202


=== Page 53 ===

-  Altman, B. M., and Gulley, S. P. (2009). Convergence and divergence: Differences in disability prevalence estimates in the United States and Canada based on four health survey instruments. Social Science and Medicine, 69(4), 543–552. doi:10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.06.017
-  Andrich, R., and Besio, S. (2002). Being informed, demanding and responsible consumers of assistive technology: An educational issue. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 152–159. doi:10.1080/09638280110064778
-  measurement: “muscle,” “voice,” and subjective quality of life as a gold standard. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 85(2 Suppl.), S13–S20. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2003.08.110
-  Carswell, A., McColl, M. A., Baptiste, S., Law, M., Polatajko, H., and Pollock, N. (2004). The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure: A research and clinical literature review. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 71(4), 210–222.
-  Day, H., and Jutai, J. (1996). Measuring the Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices: the PIADS. Canadian Journal of Rehabilitation, 9(2), 159–168.
-  Demers, L., Monette, M., Lapierre, Y., Arnold, D. L., and Wolfson, C. (2002). Reliability, validity, and applicability of the Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with assistive Technology (QUEST 2.0) for adults with multiple sclerosis. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 21–30. doi:10.1080/09638280110066352
-  Demers, L., Weiss-Labrou, R., and Ska, B. (2000). Item analysis of the Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with Assistive Technology (QUEST). Assistive Technology, 12(2), 96–105. doi:10.108 0/10400435.2000.10132015
-  technology: Do we understand the commitment? Assistive Technology, 7(1), 3–8. doi:10.1080/10400435.1995.10132246
-  Elliott, T. R., Kurylo, M., and Carroll, M. N. (2002). Personality assessment in medical rehabilitation. In M. J. Scherer (Ed.), Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation (pp. 47–48).


=== Page 54 ===

-  EUSTAT. (1999). Empowering Users through Assistive Technology: Final Report. (Project DE3402 EUSTAT). Retrieved from http://www.siva.it/research/eustat/index.html
-  Federici, S., and Meloni, F. (2010a). A note on the theoretical framework of World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule II. Disability and Rehabilitation, 32(8), 687–691. doi:10.3109/09638280903290012
-  Federici, S., and Meloni, F. (2010b). WHODAS II: Disability self-evaluation in the ICF conceptual frame. In J. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation (pp. 1–22). Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/en/article/299/
-  Federici, S., Meloni, F., Mancini, A., Lauriola, M., and Belardinelli, M. O. (2009). World Health Organisation Disability Assessment Schedule II: Contribution to the Italian validation. Disability and Rehabilitation, 31(7), 553–564. doi:10.1080/09638280802240498
-  Fulford, K. W. M., and Stanghellini, G. (2008). The third revolution: Philosophy into practice in twenty-first century psychiatry. Dialogues in Philosophy, Mental and Neuro Sciences, 1(1), 5–14. Retrieved from http://www.crossingdialogues.com/Ms-A08-03-6.pdf
-  Garber, S. L., and Gregorio, T. L. (1990). Upper extremity assistive devices: Assessment of use by spinal cord-injured patients with quadriplegia. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 44(2), 126–131.
-  assessment of assistive technology outcomes, effects and costs. Technology and Disability, 14(3), 91–94. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress. com/content/qf91ufxw9nwe003h/
-  Gelderblom, G. J., Driessen, M., Evers, H., and Claus, E. (2009). Design of a MPT based instrument supporting the quality of procurement of assistive technology. In P. L. Emiliani, L. Burzagli, A. Como, F. Gabbanini, and A.-L. Salminen (Eds.), Assistive Technology from Adapted Equipment to Inclusive Environments: AAATE 2009 (Vol. 25,


=== Page 55 ===

-  pp. 567–561). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-042-1-557
-  Gitlin, L. N. (1995). Why older people accept or reject assistive technology. Generations, 19(1), 41–46.
-  Goffman, E. (Ed.). (1963). Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Spectrum Book.
-  Gzil, F., Lefeve, C., Cammelli, M., Pachoud, B., Ravaud, J. F., and Leplege, A. (2007). Why is rehabilitation not yet fully person-centred and should it be more person-centred? Disability and Rehabilitation, 29(20–21), 1616–1624. doi:10.1080/09638280701618620
-  Hahn, H. (1985). Introduction: Disability policy and the problem of discrimination. American Behavioral Scientist, 28(3), 293–318. doi:10.1177/000276485028003002
-  Holburn, S., and Vietze, P. (Eds.). (2002). Person-Centered Planning: Research, Practice and Future Directions. Baltimore, MD: PH Brookes.
-  Jutai, J., and Day, H. (2002). Psychosocial Impact of Assistive Devices Scale (PIADS). Technology and Disability, 14(3), 107–111. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/2rc2plwxwbhtcyta/
-  Kayes, N. M., and McPherson, K. M. (2010). Measuring what matters: Does ‘objectivity’ mean good science? Disability and Rehabilitation, 32(12), 1011–1019. doi:10.3109/09638281003775501
-  Kolcaba, K. Y. (1992). Holistic comfort: Operationalizing the construct as a nurse-sensitive outcome. Advances in Nursing Science, 15(1), 1–10.
-  Kolcaba, K. Y., and Kolcaba, R. J. (1991). An analysis of the concept of comfort. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 16(11), 1301–1310. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2648.1991.tb01558.x
-  Kupfer, D. J., First, M. B., and Regier, D. E. (2002). Introduction. In D. J. Kupfer, M. B. First, and D. A. Regier (Eds.), A Research Agenda for DSM-V™ (pp. xv–xxiii). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Association.
-  Lain Entralgo, P. (1982). El Diagnostico Medico. Barcelona, Spain: Salvat.


=== Page 56 ===

-  August 18). ATOMS Project Technical Report—Factors in Assistive Technology Device Abandonment: Replacing “Abandonment” with “Discontinuance.” Retrieved from http://www.r2d2.uwm.edu/atoms/archive/ technicalreports/tr-discontinuance.html
-  Law, M., Baptiste, S., McColl, M. A., Opzoomer, A., Polatajko, H., and Pollock, N. (1990). The Canadian occupational performance measure: An outcome measure for occupational therapy. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 57(2), 82–87.
-  Law, M., Baptiste, S., McColl, M. A., Polatajko, H., and Pollock, N. (2005). Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (4th ed.). Ottawa, Canada: COAT.
-  Leplege, A., Gzil, F., Cammelli, M., Lefeve, C., Pachoud, B., and Ville, I. (2007). Person-centredness: Conceptual and historical perspectives. Disability and Rehabilitation, 29(20–21), 1555–1565. doi:10.1080/09638280701618661
-  Linder-Pelz, S. (1982). Toward a theory of patient satisfaction. Social Science and Medicine, 16(5), 577– 582. doi:10.1016/0277-9536(82)90311-2
-  Long, T., Huang, L., Woodbridge, M., Woolverton, M., and Minkel, J. (2003). Integrating assistive technology into an outcome-driven model of service delivery. Infants and Young Children, 16(4), 272–283.
-  Madans, J. H., and Altman, B. M. (2006). Purposes of Disability Statistics. Paper presented at the Training Workshop on Disability statistics for SPECA countries: UN Special Programme for the Economies of Central Asia, Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. Retrieved from http://www.unece.org/ stats/documents/2006.12.health.htm
-  Banda, J., Mbogoni, M., et al. (2002). Washington Group Position Paper: Proposed Purpose of an Internationally Comparable General Disability Measure, Retrieved from http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/ppt/citygroup/meeting3/ WG3.6a%20Madans_Altman.ppt
-  Menchetti, B. M., and Sweeney, M. A. (1995). Person-Centered Planning (Technical Assistance Packet 5). Gainesville, FL: University of Florida, Department of Special Education, Florida Network.


=== Page 57 ===

-  Mezzich, J. E. (2002). Comprehensive diagnosis: A conceptual basis for future diagnostic systems. Psychopathology, 35(2–3), 162–165. doi:10.1159/000065138
-  Mont, D. (2007). Measuring Disability Prevalence. Special Protection Discussion Paper No. 0706 Retrieved from The World Bank website: http://siteresources.worldbank.org/DISABILITY/Resources/ Data/MontPrevalence.pdf
-  Oliver, M., and Barnes, C. (1998). Disabled People and Social Policy: from Exclusion to Inclusion. London: Longman.
-  Pearson, E. J. M. (2009). Comfort and its measurement—A literature review. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 4(5), 301–310. doi:10.1080/17483100902980950
-  Philips, B., and Zhao, H. (1993). Predictors of assistive technology abandonment. Assistive Technology, 5(1), 36–45. doi:10.1080/10400435.1993.10132205
-  Rust, K. L., and Smith, R. O. (2006). Perspectives of outcome data from assistive technology developers. Assistive Technology Outcomes and Benefits, 3(1), 34–52.
-  Ryan, S., Campbell, K. A., Rigby, P., Germon, B., Chan, B., and Hubley, D. (2006). Development of the new Family Impact of Assistive Technology Scale. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 29(3), 195–200. doi:10.1097/01.mrr.0000210051.94420.1b
-  Schalock, R. L., and Alonso, M. A. V. (2002). Handbook on Quality of Life for Human Service Practitioners. Washington, DC: American Association on Mental Retardation.
-  Schalock, R. L., Borthwick-Duffy, S., Bradley, V., Buntinx, W. H. E., Coulter, D. L., Craig, E. P. M., et al. (2010). Intellectual Disability: Definition, Classification, and Systems of Support (11th ed.). Washington, DC: AAIDD.
-  Schalock, R. L., Buntinx, W., Borthwick-Duffy, S., Luckasson, R., Snell, M., Tasse, M., et al. (2007). User’s Guide: Mental Retardation: Definition, Classification and Systems of Supports: Applications for Clinicians, Educators, Disability Program Managers, and Policy Makers (10th ed.). Washington, DC: AAMR.
-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A


=== Page 58 ===

-  Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. (2002). Matching Person & Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology and Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/g0eft4mnlwly8y8g
-  Sen, A. (2002). Health: Perception versus observation. British Medical Journal (Clinical Research Edition), 324(7342), 860–861. doi:10.1136/bmj.324.7342.860
-  Sparrow, S. S., Balla, D. A., and Cicchetti, D. V. (Eds.). (1984). Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales. Circle Pines, MN: American Guidance Service.
-  Sparrow, S. S., Cicchetti, D. V., and Balla, D. A. (2005). Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (2nd ed.). Circle Pines, MN: American Guidance Service.
-  Steiner, W. A., Ryser, L., Huber, E., Uebelhart, D., Aeschlimann, A., and Stucki, G. (2002). Use of the ICF model as a clinical problem-solving tool in physical therapy and rehabilitation medicine. Physical Therapy, 82(11), 1098–1107.
-  Stucki, G., Cieza, A., Ewert, T., Kostanjsek, N., Chatterji, S., and Üstün, T. B. (2002). Application of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) in clinical practice. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(5), 281–282. doi:10.1080/10.1080/0963828011010522 2
-  Tewey, B. P., Barnicle, K., and Perr, A. (1994). The wrong stuff. Mainstream, 19(2), 19–23.
-  Thompson, J. R., Bryant, B., Campbell, E. M., Craig, E. P. M., Hughes, C., Rotholz, D. A., et al. (2004). Supports Intensity Scale Users Manual. Washington, DC: American Association on Mental Retardation.
-  Ueda, S., and Okawa, Y. (2003). The subjective dimension of functioning and disability: What is it and what is it for? Disability and Rehabilitation, 25(11–12), 596–601. doi:10.1080/0963828031000137108
-  United Nations (UN). (2001, June 4–6). Document Index of the International Seminar on the Measurement of


=== Page 59 ===

-  Disability. Paper presented at the 1st International Seminar on the Measurement of Disability, New York. Retrieved from http://unstats.un.org/unsd/disability/Seminar%202001.html
-  Uppal, S. (2006). Impact of the timing, type and severity of disability on the subjective well-being of individuals with disabilities. Social Science and Medicine, 63(2), 525–539. doi:10.1016/j. socscimed.2006.01.016
-  Üstün, T. B., Chatterji, S., Bickenbach, J. E., Kostanjsek, N., and Schneider, M. (2003a). The International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health: A new tool for understanding disability and health. Disability and Rehabilitation, 25(11–12), 565–571. doi:10.1080/0963828031000137063
-  Üstün, T. B., Chatterji, S., Bickenbach, J. E., Trotter II, R. T., and Saxena, S. (2001a). Disability and Culture: Universalism and Diversity. Seattle, WA: Hogrefe and Huber.
-  Üstün, T. B., Chatterji, S., Mechbal, A., Murray, C. J. L., and WHS Collaborating Groups. (2003b). The World Health Surveys. In C. J. L. Murray and D. B. Evans (Eds.), Health Systems Performance Assessment: Debates, Methods and Empiricism (pp. 797–808). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Üstün, T. B., Chatterji, S., Villanueva, M., Bendib, L., Celik, C., Sadana, R., et al. (2001b). WHO MultiCountry Survey Study on Health and Responsiveness. (Paper Series: No. 37). Retrieved from http:// www.who.int/healthinfo/survey/whspaper37.pdf
-  Üstün, T. B., Chatterji, S., Villanueva, M., Bendib, L., Celik, C., Sadana, R., et al. (2003c). WHO multicountry survey study on health and responsiveness 2000–2001. In C. J. L. Murray and D. B. Evans (Eds.), Health Systems Performance Assessment: Debates, Methods and Empiricism (pp. 761– 796). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Üstün, T. B., Kostanjsek, N., Chatterji, S., and Rehm, J. (Eds.) (2010). Measuring Health and Disability: Manual for WHO Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS 2.0). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Verza, R., Carvalho, M. L. L., Battaglia, M. A., and Uccelli, M. M. (2006). An interdisciplinary approach to evaluating the need for assistive technology reduces equipment abandonment. Multiple Sclerosis, 12(1), 88–93. doi:10.1191/1352458506ms1233oa


=== Page 60 ===

-  Weiss-Lambrou, R. (2002). Satisfaction and comfort. In M. J. Scherer (Ed.), Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation (pp. 77–94). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Weiss-Lambrou, R., Tremblay, C., LeBlanc, R., Lacoste, M., and Dansereau, J. (1999). Wheelchair seating aids: How satisfied are consumers? Assistive Technology, 11(1), 43–53. doi:10.1080/1040043 5.1999.10131984
-  Wessels, R., Persson, J., Lorentsen, Ø., Andrich, R., Ferrario, M., Oortwijn, W., et al. (2002). IPPA: Individually Prioritised Problem Assessment. Technology and Disability, 14(3), 141–145. Retrieved from: http://iospress.metapress.com/content/2bm793b7pbdah9bw/
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (1992). ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision (Vol. 1–3). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2002–2004). World Health Survey. Retrieved from: http://www. who.int/healthinfo/survey/en/
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2003). ICF Checklist Version 2.1a, Clinician Form. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2004). WHODAS-II—Disability Assessment Schedule Training Manual: A Guide to Administration. Retrieved from http://www.who.int/icidh/whodas/training_man.pdf
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2008). The Global Burden of Disease: 2004 Update. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zola, I. K. (1993). Disability statistics, what we count and what it tells us: A personal and political analysis. Journal of Disability Policy Studies, 4(2), 9–39. doi:10.1177/104420739300400202


=== Page 61 ===

-  Bausch, M., and Ault, M. (2008). Assistive technology implementation plan: A tool for improving outcomes. Teaching Exceptional Children, 41(1), 6–14. Retrieved from http://cec.metapress.com/ content/K57165H1X52W5731
-  Bernd, T., Van Der Pijl, D., and De Witte, L. P. (2009). Existing models and instruments for the selection of assistive technology in rehabilitation practice. Scandinavian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 16(3), 146–158. doi:10.1080/11038120802449362
-  Brown, D. L. (1997). Personal implications of functional electrical stimulation standing for older adolescents with spinal cord injuries. Technology and Disability, 6(3), 199–216. doi:10.1016/ s1055-4181(96)00038-6
-  Brown, D. L., and Merbitz, C. (1995). Comparison of Technology Match between Two Types of Functional Electrical Stimulation Hand Grasp Systems. Paper presented at the RESNA ’95 Annual Conference: RECREAbility. Recreation and Ability: Explore the Possibilities!, Arlington, VA. Retrieved from http://books.google.com/books?id = d1BRAAAAMAAJ
-  Caudrey, D. J., and Seeger, B. R. (1983). Rehabilitation engineering service evaluation: A followup study of device effectiveness and patient acceptance. Rehabilitation Literature, 44(3–4), 80–85.
-  Demers, L., Weiss-Lambrou, R., and Ska, B. (1996). Development of the Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with assistive Technology (QUEST). Assistive Technology, 8(1), 3–13. doi:10.1080/10 400435.1996.10132268
-  Wessels, R. D., and Soede, M. (2006). Non-use of assistive technology in The Netherlands: A non-issue? Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 1(1–2), 97–102. doi:10.1080/09638280500167548
-  Endler, N. S., and Parker, J. D. A. (1999). Coping Inventory for Stressful Situations (CISS): Manual (2nd ed.). North Tonawanda, NY: Multi-Health Systems.
-  Federici, S., and Borsci, S. (2011). The use and non-use of assistive technology in Italy: A pilot study. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens, and K. Miesenberger


=== Page 62 ===

-  (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011 (Vol. 29, pp. 979–986). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-979
-  Federici, S., Corradi, F., Mele, M. L., and Miesenberger, K. (2011). From cognitive ergonomist to psychotechnologist: A new professional profile in a multidisciplinary team in a centre for technical aids. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens, and K. Miesenberger (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011 (Vol. 29, pp. 1178–1184). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-1178
-  Federici, S., Corradi, F., Lo Presti, A., & Scherer, M. J. (2009). The Adaptation and Use of the Italian Version of the Matching Assistive Technology and CHild (MATCH) Measure. In P. L. Emiliani, L. Burzagli, A. Como, F. Gabbanini, and A.-L. Salminen (Eds.), Assistive Technology from Adapted Equipment to Inclusive Environments: AAATE 2009 (Vol. 25, pp. 562–566). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-042-1-562
-  Federici, S., Scherer, M. J., Micangeli, A., Lombardo, C., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2003). A crosscultural analysis of relationships between disability self-evaluation and individual predisposition to use assistive technology. In G. M. Craddock, L. P. McCormack, R. B. Reilly, and H. T. P. Knops (Eds.), Assistive Technology—Shaping the Future (pp. 941–946). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: IOS Press.
-  Gatti, N., Matteucci, M., and Sbattella, L. (2004). An adaptive and predictive environment to support augmentative and alternative communication. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler, and D. Burger (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 3118, pp. 624–631). Heidelberg, Germany: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-27817-7_144
-  Goodman, G., Tiene, D., and Luft, P. (2002). Adoption of assistive technology for computer access among college students with disabilities. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 80–92. doi:10.1080/09638280110066307
-  Judge, S. (2002). Family-centered assistive technology assessment and intervention practices for early intervention. Infants and Young Children, 15(1), 60–68. doi:10.1097/00001163-200207000-00009
-  Jutai, J., and Day, H. (2002). Psychosocial Impact of


=== Page 63 ===

-  Assistive Devices Scale (PIADS). Technology and Disability, 14(3), 107–111. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/2rc2plwxwbhtcyta/
-  Karlsson, P. (2010). ICF: A Guide to Assistive Technology Decision-Making. Paper presented at the ARATA 2010 National Conference, Hobart, Tasmania. Retrieved from http://www.arata.org. au/arataconf10/index.html
-  Kittel, A., Di Marco, A., and Stewart, H. (2002). Factors influencing the decision to abandon manual wheelchairs for three individuals with a spinal cord injury. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 106–114. doi:10.1080/0963828011006678 5
-  Lauer, A., Longenecker Rust, K., and Smith, R. O. (2006, August 18). ATOMS Project technical report—Factors in assistive technology device abandonment: Replacing “abandonment” with “discontinuance.” Retrieved from
-  Law, M., Baptiste, S., McColl, M. A., Polatajko, H., and Pollock, N. (2005). Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (4th ed.). Ottawa, Canada: COAT.
-  Lenker, J. A., and Paquet, V. L. (2004). A new conceptual model for assistive technology outcomes research and practice. Assistive Technology, 16(1), 1–10. doi:10.1080/10400435.2004.10132069
-  Pasqualotto, E., Federici, S., Simonetta, A., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2011, August 31-September 2). Usability of Brain Computer Interfaces. Paper presented at the 11th European Conference for the Advancement of Assistive Technology: AAATE 2011, Maastricht, The Netherlands. Retrieved from http://www.aaate2011.eu/
-  Philips, B., and Zhao, H. (1993). Predictors of assistive technology abandonment. Assistive Technology, 5(1), 36–45. doi:10.1080/10400435.1993.10132205
-  Ryan, S., Campbell, K. A., Rigby, P., Germon, B., Chan, B., and Hubley, D. (2006). Development of the new Family Impact of Assistive Technology Scale. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 29(3), 195–200. doi:10.1097/01.mrr.0000210051.94420.1b
-  Scherer, M. J. (1997). Matching Assistive Technology and Child: A Process and Series of Assessments for Selecting and Evaluating Technologies Used by Infants & Young Children. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person &


=== Page 64 ===

-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Living in the State of Stuck: How Technologies Affect the Lives of People with Disabilities (4th ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (Ed.). (2002). Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. (2002). Matching Person & Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology & Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/content/ g0eft4mnlwly8y8g
-  Scherer, M. J., and Cushman, L. A. (1995). Differing therapist-patient views of assistive technology use and implications for patient education and training. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 76(6), 595. Retrieved from http://download.journals.elsevierhealth.com/pdfs/ journals/0003-9993/PIIS0003999395805214.pdf
-  Scherer, M. J., Cushman, L. A., and Federici, S. (2004, June 1–10). Measuring Participation and the Disability Experience with the “Assistive Technology Device Predisposition Assessment.” Paper presented at the North American Collaborating Center 10th Annual Conference on ICF: NACC 2004, Halifax, Canada. Retrieved from http://secure.cihi.ca/cihiweb/en/downloads/10NACC_ Conf_Report_FINAL_e.pdf
-  Scherer, M. J., Federici, S., Tiberio, L., Pigliautile, M., Corradi, F., and Meloni, F. (Early Online). ICF core set for Matching Older Adults with Dementia and Technology. Ageing International. doi:10.1007/s12126-010-9093-9
-  Scherer, M. J., and Glueckauf, R. (2005). Assessing the benefits of assistive technologies for activities and participation. Rehabilitation Psychology, 50(2), 132–141. doi:10.1037/0090-5550.50.2.132


=== Page 65 ===

-  assistive technology predisposition and use. In E. Mpofu and T. Oakland (Eds.), Rehabilitation and Health Assessment. Applying ICF Guidelines (pp. 229–254). New York: Springer.
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Verza, R., Carvalho, M. L., Battaglia, M. A., and Uccelli, M. M. (2006). An interdisciplinary approach to evaluating the need for assistive technology reduces equipment abandonment. Multiple Sclerosis, 12(1), 88-93. doi:10.1191/1352458506ms1233oa
-  Vincent, C., and Morin, G. (1999). L’utilisation ou non des aides techniques: Comparaison d’un modèle américain aux besoins de la réalité Québécoise. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 66(2), 92–101.
-  Wessels, R. D., Persson, J., Lorentsen, Ø., Andrich, R., Ferrario, M., Oortwijn, W., et al. (2002). IPPA: Individually Prioritised Problem Assessment. Technology and Disability, 14(3), 141–145. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/content/2bm793b7pbdah9bw/
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2002). Towards a Common Language for Functioning, Disability and Health: ICF The International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health. Retrieved from
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2004). A Glossary of Terms for Community Health Care and Services for Older Persons. (WHO/WKC/Tech.Ser./04.2). Retrieved from http://whqlibdoc.who.int/ wkc/2004/WHO_WKC_Tech.Ser._04.2.pdf
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2006). Disability and Rehabilitation WHO Action Plan 2006-2011. Retrieved from
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zimmer, Z., and Chappell, N. L. (1999). Receptivity to new


=== Page 66 ===

-  technology among older adults. Disability and Rehabilitation, 21(5–6), 222–230. doi:10.1080/096382899297648
-  Zola, I. K. (1982). Disincentives to Independent Living. Kansas City, KS: University of Kansas. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 67 ===

-  AARP Public Policy Institute. (2005). Livable Communities: An Evaluation Guide. Retrieved from http://assets.aarp.org/rgcenter/il/d18311_communities.pdf
-  Birkeland, J. (2002). Design for Sustainability: A Sourcebook of Integrated, Eco-Logical Solutions. London: Earthscan Publications.
-  Build-for All Project. (2006). The Build-for-All Reference Manual. Retrieved from http://www.buildfor-all.net
-  Center for Universal Design. (1997). The Principles of Universal Design. Version 2.0. Retrieved from
-  Center for Universal Design. (2008). The Principles of Universal Design. Retrieved from http://www. design.ncsu.edu/cud/about_ud/udprinciples.htm
-  Church, G., and Glennen, S. (1992). The Handbook of Assistive Technology. San Diego: Singular Publishing Group Inc.
-  Day, H., Jutai, J., Woolrich, W., and Strong, G. (2001). The stability of impact of assistive devices. Disability and Rehabilitation, 23(9), 400–404. doi:10.1080/09638280010008906
-  Dijcks, B. P. J., De Witte, L. P., Gelderblom, G. J., Wessels, R. D., and Soede, M. (2006). Non-use of assistive technology in The Netherlands: A non-issue? Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 1(1–2), 97–102. doi:10.1080/09638280500167548
-  Dion, B., Balcazar de laCruz, A., Rapson, D., Svensson, E., Peters, M., and Dion, P. (2006). International Best Practices in Universal Design: A Global Review. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Canadian Human Rights Commission.
-  Egilson, S. T., and Traustadottir, R. (2009). Participation of students with physical disabilities in the school environment. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 63(3), 264–272. doi:10.5014/ ajot.63.3.264
-  EIDD Design for All Europe. (2004). Stockholm Declaration. Adopted on 9 May 2004, at the Annual General Meeting of the European Institute for Design and Disability in


=== Page 68 ===

-  Gossett, A., Mirza, M., Barnds, A. K., and Feidt, D. (2009). Beyond access: A case study on the intersection between accessibility, sustainability, and universal design. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 4(6), 439–450. doi:10.3109/17483100903100301
-  Kibert, C. J. (2008). Sustainable Construction: Green Building Design and Delivery (2nd ed.). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.
-  influencing the decision to abandon manual wheelchairs for three individuals with a spinal cord injury. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 106–114. doi:10.1080/0963828011006678 5
-  Knecht, B. (2004). Accessibility regulations and a universal design philosophy inspire the design process. Architectural Record, 192, 145–150. Retrieved from http://archrecord.construction.com/ resources/conteduc/archives/0401edit-1.asp
-  Lauer, A., Longenecker Rust, K., and Smith, R. O. (2006, August 18). ATOMS Project technical report— Factors in assistive technology device abandonment: Replacing “abandonment” with “discontinuance.” Retrieved from
-  Lovelock, B. (2010). Disability and going green: A comparison of the environmental values and behaviors of persons with and without disability. Disability and Society, 25(4), 467–484. doi:10.1080/09687591003755856
-  Mace, R. L., Hardie, G. J., and Place, J. P. (1991). Accessible environments: Toward universal design. In W. F. E. Preiser, J. Vischer, and E. T. White (Eds.), Design Intervention: Toward a More Humane Architecture (pp. 1–44). New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold.
-  Mann, W. C., and Lane, J. P. (1991). Assistive Technology for Persons with Disabilities: The Role of Occupational Therapy. Bethesda, MD: American Occupational Therapy Association.
-  Oliver, M. (1990). The Politics of Disablement. London: Palgrave Macmillan.
-  Parker, J. (2009). BREEAM or LEED—Strengths and weaknesses of the two main environmental assessment methods.


=== Page 69 ===

-  Philips, B., and Zhao, H. (1993). Predictors of assistive technology abandonment. Assistive Technology, 5(1), 36–45. doi:10.1080/10400435.1993.10132205
-  Salmen, J. (2008). Is universal design really universal? Retrieved from http://www.uigarden.net/ english/is-universal-design-really-universal
-  Scherer, M. J. (2002). The study of assistive technology outcomes in the United States. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, and W. Zagler (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 2398, pp. 131–142). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/3-540-45491-8_152
-  Scherer, M. J., Cushman, L. A., and Federici, S. (2004, June 1–10). Measuring Participation and the Disability Experience with the “Assistive Technology Device Predisposition Assessment.” Paper presented at the North American Collaborating Center 10th Annual Conference on ICF: NACC 2004, Halifax, Canada.
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Söderström, S., and Ytterhus, B. (2010). The use and non-use of assistive technologies from the world of information and communication technology by visually impaired young people: a walk on the tightrope of peer inclusion. Disability and Society, 25(3), 303–315. doi:10.1080/09687591003701215
-  U.S. Access Board. (2004). Revised ADA and ABA Accessibility Guidelines. Retrieved from http://www. access-board.gov/ada-aba/final.pdf
-  U.S. Green Building Council. (2011). Introduction—What LEED is. Retrieved from http://www. usgbc.org/DisplayPage.aspx?CMSPageID = 1988
-  United Nations (UN). (2006). Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. (A/RES/61/106). New York: UN Retrieved from http://www.un-documents.net/a61r106.htm
-  Üstün, T. B., Compton, W., Mager, D., Babor, T., Baiyewu, O., Chatterji, S., et al. (1997). WHO study on the


=== Page 70 ===

-  reliability and validity of the alcohol and drug use disorder instruments: Overview of methods and results. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 47(3), 161–169.
-  Verdonschot, M. M. L., de Witte, L. P., Reichrath, E., Buntinx, W. H. E., and Curfs, L. M. G. (2009). Community participation of people with an intellectual disability: A review of empirical findings. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 53(4), 303–318. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2788.2008.01144.x
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 71 ===

-  Agree, E. M., and Freedman V.A. (2000). Incorporating assistive devices into community-based longterm care: An analysis of the potential for substitution and supplementation. Journal of Aging and Health, 12(3), 426–450.
-  Agree, E. M., Freedman, V. A., Cornman, J. C., Wolf, D. A., and Marcotte J. E. (2005). Reconsidering substitution in long-term care: When does assistive technology take the place of personal care? Journals of Gerontology Series B: Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences, 60(5), S272.
-  Agree, E. M., Freedman, V. A., and Sengupta, M. (2004). Factors influencing the use of mobility technology in community-based long-term care. Journal of Aging and Health, 16(2), 267–307.
-  Allen, S., Resnik, L., and Roy, J. (2006). Promoting independence for wheelchair users: The role of home accommodations. The Gerontologist, 46(1), 115–123.
-  Allen, S. M., Foster, A., and Berg, K. (2001). Receiving help at home: The interplay of human and technological assistance. Journals of Gerontology Series B: Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences, 56(6), S374–S382.
-  Blake, H., and Lincoln, N.B. (2000). Factors associated with strain in co-resident spouses of patients following stroke. Clinical Rehabilitation, 14(3), 307–314.
-  Chappell, N. L., and Reid, R.C. (2002). Burden and well-being among caregivers: Examining the distinction. The Gerontologist, 42(6), 772–780.
-  (1999). Caregiver involvement in the use of assistive devices by frail older persons. Occupational Therapy Journal of Research, 20(3), 179–199.
-  Demers, L., Fuhrer, M.J. Jutai, J., Lenker, J., Depa, M., and De Ruyter, F. (2009). A conceptual framework of outcomes for caregivers of assistive technology users. American Journal of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, 88(8), 645–655.
-  Demers, L., Fuhrer, M., Jutai, J., Lenker, J.A., and Deruyter, F. (2007). A Framework for Evaluating Assistive


=== Page 72 ===

-  Technology Outcomes on the User-Care Giver Dyad. Abstract number T0076, Paper presented at the Festival International Conferences on Caregiving, Disability, Aging and Technology (FICCDAT).
-  Demers, L., Ska, B., Desrosiers, J., Alix, C., and Wolfson, C. (2004). Development of a conceptual framework for the assessment of geriatric rehabilitation outcomes. Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics, 38(3), 221–237.
-  Department of Health and Human Services. (1998). Informal Caregiving: Compassion in Action, Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
-  Dunst, C. J., Trivette, C. M., Davis, M., and Cornwell, J. (1988). Enabling and empowering families of children with health impairments. Children’s Health Care 17(2), 71–81.
-  Egbert, N., Dellmann-Jenkins, M., Smith, G. C., Coeling, H., and Johnson, R.J. (2008). The emotional needs of care recipients and the psychological well-being of informal caregivers: Implications for home care clinicians. Home Healthcare Nurse, 26(1), 50.
-  Fuhrer, M., Jutai, J., Demers, L., Scherer, M., Bloch, E., and DeRuyter, F. (2006). Effects of type of locomotive device and disabling condition on device use and disuse among elderly individuals following hospitalization. Abstract. In Proceedings of the International Conference of Aging, Disability and Independence.
-  Gallego, C. F., Roger, M. R., Bonet, I. B., Vinets, L. G., Ribas, A. P., Pisa, R. L., and Oriol, R. P. (2001). Validation of a questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life of nonprofessional caregivers of dependent persons. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 33(4), 548–554.
-  Glumac, L. K., Pennington, S. L., Sweeney, J. K., and Leavitt, R. L. (2009). Guatemalan caregivers’ perceptions of receiving and using wheelchairs donated for their children. Pediatric Physical Therapy, 21(2), 158–166.
-  Gooberman-Hill, R., and Ebrahim, S. (2006). Informal care at times of change in health and mobility: A qualitative study. Age and Ageing, 35(3), 261.
-  Henderson, S., Skelton, H., and Rosenbaum, P. (2008). Assistive devices for children with functional impairments: Impact on child and caregiver function. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology, 50(2), 89–98.


=== Page 73 ===

-  Hoenig, H., Taylor Jr., D. H., and Sloan, F. A. (2003). Does assistive technology substitute for personal assistance among the disabled elderly? American Journal of Public Health: American Journal of Public Health, 93(2), 330–337.
-  Hollander, M. J., Liu, G., and Chappell, N. L. (2009). Who cares and how much? Healthcare Quarterly, 12(2), 42–49.
-  Houser, A., and Gibson, M. J. (2008). Valuing the Invaluable: The Economic Value of Family Caregiving, 2008 Update. Washington, DC: American Association of Retired Persons, Insight on the Issues 13.
-  Kane, C. M., Mann, W. C., Tomita, M., and Nochajski, S. (2001). Reasons for device use among caregivers of the frail elderly. Physical & Occupational Therapy in Geriatrics, 20(1), 29–47.
-  Kaye, H. S., Yeager, P., and Reed, M. (2008). Disparities in usage of assistive technology among people with disabilities. Assistive Technology, 20, 194–203.
-  Tadrissi, S. (2000). Care delivery approaches and seniors’ independence. Canadian Journal on Aging, 19, 101–124.
-  Messecar, D. C., Archbold, P. G., Stewart, B. J., and Kirschling, J. (2002). Home environmental modification strategies used by caregivers of elders. Research in Nursing and Health, 25(5), 357–370.
-  Caregiving. (2006). The Metlife Caregiving Cost Study: Productivity Losses to U.S Business. Westport, CT: Metlife Mature Market Institute.
-  Mortenson, B., Gélinas-Bronsard, D., Roy, L., Plante, M.*, McCabe, D., & Demers, L. (2009). Impacts des aides techniques auprès des usagers et de leurs proches aidants. Résumés des communications de la 7e Journée scientifique annuelle du Réseau québécois de recherche en vieillissement – La recherche sur le vieillissement : Des défis à relever, Québec, p. 33.
-  op Reimer, S., de Haan, R. J., Rijnders, P. T., Limburg, M., and van den Bos, G. A. M. (1998). The burden of caregiving in partners of long-term stroke survivors. Stroke, 29(8), 1605–1611.


=== Page 74 ===

-  Østensjø, S., Carlberg, E. B., and Vøllestad, N. K. (2005). The use and impact of assistive devices and other environmental modifications on everyday activities and care in young children with cerebral palsy. Disability & Rehabilitation, 27(14), 849–861.
-  Pettersson, I., Berndtsson, I., Appelros, P., and Ahlström, G. (2005). Lifeworld perspectives on assistive devices: Lived experiences of spouses of persons with stroke. Scandinavian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 12(4), 159–169.
-  Pinquart, M., and Sörensen, S. (2003). Differences between caregivers and noncaregivers in psychological health and physical health: A meta-analysis. Psychology and Aging, 18(2), 250–267.
-  Rigby, P., Denise, R., Schoger, S., and Ryan, S. (2001). Effects of a wheelchair-mounted rigid pelvic stabilizer on caregiver assistance for children with cerebral palsy. Assistive Technology, 13, 2–11.
-  Rudman, D. L., Hebert, D., and Reid, D. (2006). Living in a restricted occupational world: The occupational experiences of stroke survivors who are wheelchair users and their caregivers. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 73(3), 141–152.
-  Ryan, S. (2010). Development of an indicator of the impact of assistive devices in children and their families in Canadian Child and Youth Coalition [database online]. Retrieved from http://
-  Ryan, S., Campbell, K. A., Rigby, P., Germon, B., Chan, B., and Hubley, D. (2006). Development of the new family impact of assistive technology scale. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 29(3), 195–200.
-  Ryan, S. E., Campbell, K. A., and Rigby, P. J. (2007). Reliability of the Family Impact of Assistive Technology Scale for families of young children with cerebral palsy. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 88, 1436–1440.
-  Ryan, S. E., Campbell, K. A., Rigby, P. J., Fishbein-Germon, B., Hubley, D., and Chan, B. (2009). The impact of adaptive seating devices on the lives of young children with cerebral palsy and their families. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 90(1), 27–33.


=== Page 75 ===

-  Statistics Canada. (2005). Population Projections for Canada, Provinces and Territories, 2005 to 2031. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Statistics Canada, Catalogue no. 91-520-XIE.
-  Statistics Canada. (2008). Participation and Activity Limitation Survey 2006: A Profile of Assistive Technology for People with Disabilities. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Statistic Canada, 89-628-X-no.005.
-  Stuckey, J. C., Neundorfer, M. M., and Smyth, K. A. (1996). Burden and well-being: The same coin or related currency? The Gerontologist, 36(5), 686–693.
-  Taylor, D. H., and Hoenig, H. (2004). The effect of equipment usage and residual task difficulty on use of personal assistance, days in bed, and nursing home placement. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 52(1), 72–79.
-  Thompson, L. (1999). Functional changes in persons aging with spinal cord injury. Assistive Technology 11(2), 123–129.
-  Townsend, E., Stanton, S., Law, M., Polatajko, H., Baptiste, S., Thompson-Franson, T. et al. (1997). Enabling Occupation: An Occupational Therapy Perspective. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada: Canadian Association of Occupational Therapists.
-  Verbrugge, L. M., and Sevak, P. (2002). Use, type, and efficacy of assistance for disability. The Journals of Gerontology. Series B, Psychological Sciences and Social Sciences, 57(6), S366–S379.
-  Visser-Meily, A., van Heugten, C., Post, M., Schepers, V., and Lindeman, E. (2005). Intervention studies for caregivers of stroke survivors: A critical review. Patient Education and Counselling, 56(3), 257–267.
-  Visser-Meily, J. M., Post, M. W. M., Riphagen, I. I., and Lindeman, E. (2004). Measures used to assess burden among caregivers of stroke patients: A review. Clinical Rehabilitation, 18(6), 601–623.
-  Wiart, L., Darrah, J., Hollis, V., Cook, A., and May, L. (2004). Mothers’ perceptions of their children’s use of powered mobility. Physical & Occupational Therapy in Pediatrics 24(4), 3–21.


=== Page 77 ===

-  Chua, K. S. G., Ng, Y.-S., Yap, S. G. M., and Bok, C.-W. (2007). A Brief Review of Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation. Annals of the Academy of Medicine, Singapore, 36(1), 31–42. Retrieved from Annals.edu.sg website: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17285184
-  Hall, T., Krahn, G. L., Horner-Johnson, W., and Lamb, G. (2011). Examining functional content in widely used Health-Related Quality of Life scales. Rehabilitation Psychology, 56(2), 94–99. doi:10.1037/a0023054
-  Joint Committee on Interprofessional Relations Between the American Speech–Language-Hearing Association and Division 40 (Clinical Neuropsychology) of the American Psychological Association. (2007). Structure and Function of an Interdisciplinary Team for Persons with Acquired Brain Injury [Guidelines]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy doi:10.1044/policy. GL2007-00288
-  Maas, A. I., Harrison-Felix, C. L., Menon, D., Adelson, P. D., Balkin, T., Bullock, R., et al. (2010). Common data elements for traumatic brain injury: recommendations from the interagency working group on demographics and clinical assessment. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 91(11), 1641-1649. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2010.07.232
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Living in the State of Stuck: How Technologies Affect the Lives of People with Disabilities (4th ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2012). Assistive Technologies and Other Supports for People with Brain Impairment. New York, NY: Springer Publishing.
-  Wilson, B. A. (2006). Recent Developments in Neuropsychological Rehabilitation. Higher Brain Function Research, 26(2), 121–127. doi:10.2496/hbfr.26.121


=== Page 78 ===

-  Altman, I. M., Swick, S., Parrot, D., and Malec, J. F. (2010). Effectiveness of community-based rehabilitation after traumatic brain injury for 489 program completers compared with those precipitously discharged. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 91(11), 1697–1704. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2010.08.001
-  Arthur, A. R. (2003). The emotional lives of people with learning disability. British Journal of Learning Disabilities, 31(1), 25–30. doi:10.1046/j.1468-3156.2003.00193.x
-  Beck, A. T. (1976). Cognitive Therapy and the Emotional Disorders. New York: International Universities Press.
-  Beck, A. T., Emery, G., and Greenberg, R. L. (1985). Anxiety Disorders and Phobias: A Cognitive Perspective. New York: Basic Books.
-  Beck, A. T., Rush, A. J., Brian, F. S., and Emery, G. (1979). Cognitive Therapy of Depression. New York: Guilford Press.
-  Bharucha, A., Anand, V., Forlizzi, J., Dew, M. A., Reynolds III, C. F., Stevens, S., et al. (2009). Intelligent assistive technology applications to dementia care: Current capabilities, limitations, and future challenges. American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, 17(2), 88–104. doi:10.1097/ JGP.0b013e318187dde5
-  Bickenbach, J. E. (2009). Disability, culture and the UN Convention. Disability and Rehabilitation, 31(14), 1111–1124. doi:10.1080/09638280902773729
-  Bocchi, G., and Ceruti, M. (Eds.). (1985). La Sfida della Complessità. Milano, Italy: Feltrinelli.
-  Bowlby, J. (1979). The Making and Breaking of Affectional Bonds. London: Routledge.
-  Bowlby, J. (1988). A Secure Base: Clinical Applications of Attachment Theory. London: Routledge.
-  Braddock, D., Rizzolo, M. C., Thompson, M., and Bell, R. (2004). Emerging technologies and cognitive disability. Journal of Special Education Technology, 19(4), 49–56.
-  Bruner, J. S. (1990). Acts of Meaning. Cambridge, MA:


=== Page 79 ===

-  Cicerone, K. D., Dahlberg, C., Kalmar, K., Langenbahn, D. M., Malec, J. F., Bergquist, T. F., et al. (2000). Evidence-based cognitive rehabilitation: Recommendations for clinical practice. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 81(12), 1596–1615. doi:10.1053/apmr.2000.19240
-  Cicerone, K. D., Dahlberg, C., Malec, J. F., Langenbahn, D. M., Felicetti, T., Kneipp, S., et al. (2005). Evidence-based cognitive rehabilitation: Updated review of the literature from 1998 through 2002. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 86(8), 1681–1692. doi:10.1016/j. apmr.2005.03.024
-  Cicerone, K. D., Langenbahn, D. M., Braden, C., Malec, J. F., Kalmar, K., Fraas, M., et al. (2011). Evidence-based cognitive rehabilitation: Updated review of the literature from 2003 through 2008. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 92(4), 519-530. doi:10.1016/j. apmr.2010.11.015
-  Cicerone, K. D., Mott, T., Azulay, J., and Friel, J. C. (2004). Community integration and satisfaction with functioning after intensive cognitive rehabilitation for traumatic brain injury. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 85(6), 943–950. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2003.07.019
-  Cionini, L. (1991). Psicoterapia Cognitiva [Cognitive Psychotherapy]. Rome: Carocci.
-  Cionini, L. (Ed.). (1998). Psicoterapie. Modelli a Confronto. Rome: Carocci.
-  De Pompei, R., Gillette, Y., Goetz, E., Xenopoulos-Oddsson, A., Bryen, D., and Dowds, M. (2008). Practical applications for use of PDAs and smartphones with children and adolescents who have traumatic brain injury. NeuroRehabilitation, 23(6), 487–499. Retrieved from http://www. ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19127002
-  Durlak, J. A., Fuhrman, T., and Lampman, C. (1991). Effectiveness of cognitive-behavior therapy for maladapting children: A meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 110(2), 204–214. doi:10.1037//0033-2909.110.2.204
-  Ellis, A. (1962). Reason and Emotion in Psychotherapy. New York: Lyle Stuart.


=== Page 80 ===

-  Ellis, A. (2003). Reasons why rational emotive behavior therapy is relatively neglected in the professional and scientific literature. Journal of Rational-Emotive and Cognitive-Behavior Therapy, 21(3/4), 245–252. doi:10.1023/A:1025842229157
-  Engel, G. L. (1977). The need for a new medical model: A challenge for biomedicine. Science, 196(4286), 129–136. doi:10.1126/science.847460
-  Gillette, Y., and De Pompei, R. (2004). The potential of electronic organizers as a tool in the cognitive rehabilitation of young people. NeuroRehabilitation, 19(3), 233–243. Retrieved from http:// www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15502256
-  Gonzalez, J. E., Nelson, J. R., Gutkin, T. B., Saunders, A., Galloway, A., and Shwery, C. S. (2004). Rational emotive therapy with children and adolescents: A meta-analysis. Journal of Emotional and Behavioral Disorders, 12(4), 222–235. doi:10.1177/10634266040120040301
-  Guidano, V. F. (1987). Complexity of the Self: A Developmental Approach to Psychopathology and Therapy. New York: Guilford Press.
-  Guidano, V. F. (1991). The Self in Process: Toward a Post-Rationalist Cognitive Therapy. New York: Guilford Press.
-  Guidano, V. F., and Liotti, G. (1983). Cognitive Processes and Emotional Disorders: A Structural Approach to Psychotherapy. New York: Guilford Press.
-  Hart, T. (2010). Cognitive rehabilitation. In R. G. Frank, M. Rosenthal, and B. Caplan (Eds.), Handbook of Rehabilitation Psychology (2nd ed., pp. 285–300). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Heerkens, Y. F., Bougie, T., and de Kleijn-de Vrankrijker, M. W. (2010). Classification and terminology of assistive products. In J. Stone, and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation (pp. 1–12). Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/en/article/265/
-  Heyvaert, M., Maes, B., and Onghena, P. (2010). A meta-analysis of intervention effects on challenging


=== Page 81 ===

-  behaviour among persons with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 54(7), 634–649. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2788.2010.01291.x
-  High, W. M., Sander, A. M., Struchen, M. A., and Hart, K. A. (2005). Rehabilitation for Traumatic Brain Injury. New York: Oxford University Press.
-  Hurley, A. D., Tomasulo, D. J., and Pfadt, A. G. (1998). Individual and group psychotherapy approaches for persons with mental retardation and developmental disabilities. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 10(4), 365–386. doi:10.1023/A:1021806605662
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2007). ISO 9999:2007: Assistive Products for Persons with Disability—Classification and Terminology. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  Liotti, G. (1991). Il significato delle emozioni e la psicoterapia cognitiva [The meaning of emotions and the cognitive psychotherapy]. In T. Magri, and F. Mancini (Eds.), Emozione e Conoscenza [Emotion and Knowledge] (pp. 227–244). Roma: Editori Riuniti.
-  Liotti, G. (1999). Disorganized attachment as a model for understanding dissociative psychopathology. In J. Solomon, and C. George (Eds.), Attachment Disorganization (pp. 291–317). New York: Guilford Press.
-  Liotti, G. (2001). Le Opere della Coscienza. Psicopatologia e Psicoterapia Nella Prospettiva CognitivoEvoluzionista [The Labours of Consciousness]. Milan, Italy: Cortina Raffaello.
-  Liotti, G. (2005). La Dimensione Interpersonale Della Coscienza [The Interpersonal Dimension of Consciousness] (2nd ed.). Rome: Carocci.
-  Mahoney, M. J. (1980). Psychotherapy and the structure of personal revolutions. In M. J Mahoney (Ed.), Psychotherapy Process: Current Issues and Future Directions (pp. 157–180). New York: Plenum Press.
-  Scientific Foundations of Psychotherapy. New York: Basic Books.
-  Maturana, H. R., and Varela, F. J. (1980). Autopoiesis and Cognition: The Realization of the Living. Boston: Reidel.


=== Page 82 ===

-  Maturana, H. R., and Varela, F. J. (1987). The Tree of Knowledge: The Biological Roots of Human Understanding. Boston: Shambhala.
-  McGinn, L. K., and Sanderson, W. C. (2006). What allows cognitive behavioral therapy to be brief: Overview, efficacy, and crucial factors facilitating brief treatment. Clinical Psychology: Science and Practice, 8(1), 23–37. doi:10.1093/clipsy.8.1.23
-  Realtà [The Construction of Reality]. Torino, Italy: Boringhieri.
-  Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (1976). Prospettive dell’odierna psicologia scientifica. [Perspectives of Todays Scientific Psychology]. Comunicazioni Scientifiche della Cattedra di Psicologia Generale IV(1), 7–18.
-  Rait, S., Monsen, J. J., and Squires, G. (2010). Cognitive behaviour therapies and their implications for applied educational psychology practice. Educational Psychology in Practice, 26(2), 105–122. doi:10.1080/02667361003768443
-  Reda, M. A. (1986). Sistemi Cognitivi Complessi e Psicoterapia [Complex Cognitive Systems and Psichoterapy]. Roma: Carocci.
-  Sablier, J., Stip, E., and Franck, N. (2009). Remédiation cognitive et assistants cognitifs numériques dans la schizophrénie. [Cognitive remediation and cognitive assistive technologies in schizophrenia]. Encephale, 35(2), 160–167. doi:10.1016/j.encep.2008.02.010
-  Schalock, R. L., and Luckasson, R. (2004). American Association on Mental Retardation’s Definition, Classification, and System of Supports and its relation to international trends and issues in the field of intellectual disabilities. Journal of Policy and Practice in Intellectual Disabilities, 1(3–4), 136–146. doi:10.1111/j.1741-1130.2004.04028.x
-  Scherer, M. J. (1986). Values in the Creation, Prescription, and Use of Technological Aids and Assistive Devices for People with Physical Disabilities. Doctoral Dissertation, University of Rochester and final report to the National Science Foundation. (University Microfilms No. ADG87-08247) Retrieved from http://worldcat.org /z-wcorg/


=== Page 83 ===

-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Living in the State of Stuck: How Technologies Affect the Lives of People with Disabilities (4th ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2012). Assistive Technologies and Other Supports for People with Brain Impairment. New York: Springer.
-  Scherer, M. J., Hart, T., Kirsch, N., and Schulthesis, M. (2005). Assistive technologies for cognitive disabilities. Critical Reviews™ in Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, 17(3), 195–215. doi:10.1615/ CritRevPhysRehabilMed.v17.i3.30
-  Scherer, M. J., Jutai, J., Fuhrer, M., Demers, L., and Deruyter, F. (2007). A framework for modelling the selection of assistive technology devices (ATDs). Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 2(1), 1–8. doi:10.1080/17483100600845414
-  Scherer, M. J., and Sax, C. L. (2010). Measures of assistive technology predisposition and use. In E. Mpofu and T. Oakland (Eds.), Rehabilitation and Health Assessment. Applying ICF Guidelines (pp. 229–254). New York: Springer.
-  Semerani, A. (2002). Storia, Teorie e Tecniche Della Psicoterapia Cognitiva [Cognitive Therapy: History, Theories and Techniques]. Bari, Italy: Laterza.
-  Taylor, J. L. (2005). In support of psychotherapy for people who have mental retardation. Mental Retardation, 43(6), 450–453. doi:10.1352/0047-6765(2005)43[450:ISOPFP]2.0.CO;2
-  Taylor, J. L., Lindsay, W. R., and Willner, P. (2008). CBT for people with intellectual disabilities: Emerging evidence, cognitive ability and IQ effects. Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapy, 36(06), 723. doi:10.1017/S1352465808004906
-  Tsaousides, T., and Gordon, W. A. (2009). Cognitive rehabilitation following traumatic brain injury: Assessment to treatment. Mount Sinai Journal of Medicine,


=== Page 84 ===

-  United Nations (UN). (2006). Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. (A/RES/61/106). New York: UN. Retrieved from http://www.un-documents.net/a61r106.htm
-  United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). (2010). Training Manual on Disability Statistics. Retrieved January 5, 2011 from http://www.unescap.org/stat/ disability/manual/Chapter2-Disability-Statistics.asp
-  von Bertalanffy, L. (1968). General System Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications. New York: G. Braziller.
-  von Foerster, H. (1984). Observing Systems. Seadide, CA: Intersystems Publications.
-  von Glasersfeld, E. (1984). An introduction to radical constructivism. In P. Watzlawick (Ed.), The Invented Reality: How Do We Know What We Believe We Know? (Contributions to Constructivism) (pp. 17–40). New York: Norton.
-  Whitehouse, R. M., Tudway, J. A., Look, R., and Kroese, B. S. (2006). Adapting individual psychotherapy for adults with intellectual disabilities: A comparative review of the cognitive-behavioural and psychodynamic literature. Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities, 19(1), 55–65. doi:10.1111/j.1468-3148.2005.00281.x
-  Willner, P., and Hatton, C. (2006). CBT for people with intellectual disabilities. Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities, 19(1), 1–3. doi:10.1111/j.1468-3148.2006.00300.x
-  World Health Organization. (WHO). (2001). International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) Vol. 2010). Retrieved from http://www.who.int/classifications/icf/en/ This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 85 ===

-  Bowe F. G. (1995). The political and economic issues that drive and derail assistive technology development. Generations, 19(1), 37–40.
-  Bowser, G., and Reed, P. (1995). Education TECH points for assistive technology planning. Journal of Special Education Technology, 12(4), 325–338.
-  British Educational Communications and Technology Agency (Becta). (2003). What the research says about ICT supporting special educational needs (SEN) and inclusion What the Research Says Series. Retrieved from Education.gov.uk website:
-  Case, D., and Lahm, E. A. (2003). The Essential Elements of an Assistive Technology Assessment and Assessment Report. Paper presented at the CSUN Technology and Persons with Disabilities Los Angeles, CA, US.
-  Copley, J., and Ziviani, J. (2004). Barriers to the use of assistive technology for children with multiple disabilities. Occupational Therapy International, 11(4), 229–243. doi:10.1002/oti.213
-  Craddock, G. (2003). Statement of Need (SON) in assistive technology service delivery systemimplications for policy and practice in an Irish context. In G. M. Craddock, L. P. McCormack, R. B. Reilly and H. T. P. Knops (Eds.), Assistive Technology—Shaping the Future (pp. 385–388). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: IOS Press.
-  Craddock, G. (2006). The AT continuum in education: Novice to power user. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 1(1–2), 17–27. doi:10.1080/09638280500167118
-  Craddock, G., and MacKeogh, T. (2004). Inclusive Learning through Technology—the ILT Project, Paper presented at the History of Education Society Conference, October 7–8, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.
-  Craddock, G., and McCormack, L. (2002). Delivering an AT service: A client-focused, social and participatory service delivery model in assistive technology in Ireland. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 160–170. doi:10.1080/09638280110063869
-  Craddock, G., and Scherer, M. J. (2002). Assessing individual needs for assistive technology. In C. L. Sax


=== Page 86 ===

-  and C. A. Thoma (Eds.), Transition Assessment: Wise Practices for Quality Lives. Baltimore, MD: P.H. Brookes.
-  Dalton, E. M. (2002). Assistive technology in education: A review of policies, standards, and curriculum integration from 1997 through 2000 involving assistive technology and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Issues in Teaching and Learning, 1(1). Retrieved from http:// www.ric.edu/itl/volume_01_articles.php#section10
-  Erickson, K. (2006). What works for all students. Unpublished research outcome. Retrieved from http://www.donjohnston.research.com
-  Iowa Department of Education. (2007). Summary of Iowa Text Reader Longitudinal Study 2006–2007. Unpublished. Retrieved from http://www.kurzweiledu.com/content/documents/Iowa%20 Text%20Reader%20Study%20Final%20Report.pdf
-  Judge, S., Floyd, K., and Wood-Fields, C. (2010). Creating a technology-rich learning environment for infants and toddlers with disabilities. Infants and Young Children, 23(2), 84–92. doi:10.1097/ IYC.0b013e3181d29b14
-  Judge, S., and Simms, K. A. (2009). Assistive technology training at the pre-service level: A national snapshot of teacher preparation programs, teacher education, and special education. Teacher Education and Special Education, 32(1), 33–44. doi:10.1177/0888406408330868
-  Lahm, E. A., and Sizemore, L. (2002). Factors that influence assistive technology decision-making. Journal of Special Education Technology, 17(1), 15–26.
-  Lenker, J. A., and Paquet, V. L. (2003). A review of conceptual models for assistive technology outcomes research and practice. Assistive Technology, 15(1), 1–15. doi:10.1080/10400435.2003.10131885
-  Louise-Bender Pape, T., Kim, J., and Weiner, B. (2002). The shaping of individual meanings assigned to assistive technology: a review of personal factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 5–20. doi:10.1080/0963828011006623 5
-  Markussen, E. (2004). Special education: Does it help? A study of special education in Norwegian upper secondary schools. European Journal of Special Needs Education, 19(1), 33–48. doi:10.1080/0885625032000167133


=== Page 87 ===

-  Millar, D. C., Light, J. C., and Schlosser, R. W. (2006). The impact of augmentative and alternative communication intervention on the speech production of individuals with developmental disabilities: A research review. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 49(2), 248–264. doi:10.1044/1092–4388(2006/021)
-  Mirenda, P., Turoldo, K., and McAvoy, C. (2006). The impact of word prediction software on the written output of students with physical disabilities. Journal of Special Education Technology, 21(3), 5–12.
-  Østensjø, S., Carlberg, E. B., and Vøllestad, N. (2005). The use and impact of assistive devices and other environmental modifications on everyday activities and care in young children with cerebral palsy. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(14), 849–861. doi:10.1080/09638280400018619
-  Schepis, M. M., Reid, D. H., Behrmann, M. M., and Sutton, K. A. (1998). Increasing communicative interactions of young children with autism using a voice output communication aid and naturalistic teaching. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis, 31(4), 561–578. doi:10.1901/ jaba.1998.31–561.
-  Scherer, M. (1997). Matching Assistive Technology and Child: A Process and Series of Assessments for Selecting and Evaluating Technologies Used by Infants and Young Children. Webster, NY: Institute for Matching Person & Technology.
-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Assessing the benefits of using assistive technologies and other supports for thinking, remembering and learning. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(13), 731–739. doi:10.1080/09638280400014816
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. (2002). Matching Person & Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology and Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/g0eft4mnlwly8y8g
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L.


=== Page 88 ===

-  A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Scherer, M. J., and Zapf, S. (2008). Poster 50: Developing a measure to appropriately match students with disabilities and assistive technology devices. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 89(10), e21-e22. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2008.08.077
-  Sigafoos, J., and Drasgow, E. (2001). Conditional use of aided and unaided AAC: A review and clinical case demonstration. Focus on Autism and Other Developmental Disabilities, 16(3), 152–161. doi:10.1177/108835760101600303
-  the effects of Co:Writer word prediction Software on the writing achievement of students with learning disabilities. Retrieved from
-  Swanson, C. B. (2008). Special Education in America: The State of Students with Disabilities. Bethesda, MD: Editorial Projects in America.
-  Sze, S. (2009). A literature review: Pre-service teachers’ attitudes toward students with disabilities. Education, 130(1), 53–56.
-  Texas Assistive Technology Network (TATN). (2007). Considering Assistive Technology in the IEP Training Module and Resource Guide Supplement. Retrieved from http://www.texasat.net and http://techaccess.edb.utexas.edu
-  U.S. Department of Education Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services (OSERS). (1998). 20th Annual Report to Congress on the Implementation of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Retrieved from
-  Watson, A. H., Ito, M., Smith, R. O., and Andersen, L. T. (2010). Effect of assistive technology in a public school setting. The American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 64(1), 18–29. doi:10.5014/ ajot.64.1.18
-  World Health Organization. (2010). Disabilities & Rehabilitations. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO. Retrieved from


=== Page 89 ===

-  Zapf, S. A., and Scherer, M. J. (2011). Matching assistive technology to child assessment: A pilot study. Manuscript submitted for publication.


=== Page 90 ===

-  AAATE. (2003). AAATE Position Paper: A 2003 View on Technology and Disability. Retrieved from http://www.aaate.net/
-  American Psychological Association (APA). (2010). Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct. Retrieved from http://www.apa.org/ethics/code/index.aspx
-  Badley, E. M. (2006, June 5–7). More than Facilitators and Barriers: Fitting the Full Range of Environmental and Personal Contextual Factors into the ICF Model. Paper presented at the 12th annual North American Collaborating Centre Conference on ICF, Vancouver, Canada.
-  Barker, D. J., Reid, D., and Cott, C. (2006). The experience of senior stroke survivors: Factors in community participation among wheelchair users. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 73(1), 18–25. doi:l 0.2182/cjot.05.0002
-  Barry, P., and O’Leary, J. (1989). Roles of the psychologist on a traumatic brain injury rehabilitation team. Rehabilitation Psychology, 34(2), 83–90. doi:10.1037/h0091712
-  Bickenbach, J. E., Chatterji, S., Badley, E. M., and Üstün, T. B. (1999). Models of disablement, universalism and the International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities and Handicaps. Social Science and Medicine, 48(9), 1173–1187. doi:10.1016/S0277-9536(98)00441-9
-  Bodenheimer, T., Lorig, K., Holman, H., and Grumbach, K. (2002). Patient self-management of chronic disease in primary care. Journal of the American Medical Association, 288(19), 2469–2475. doi:10.1001/jama.288.19.2469
-  Brown, M., and Gordon, W. A. (2004). Empowerment in measurement: “Muscle,” “voice,” and subjective quality of life as a gold standard. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 85(Suppl. 2), S13–S20. doi:10.1016/j.apmr.2003.08.110
-  Carli, R. (1993). L’Analisi Della Domanda in Psicologia Clinica [Demand Analysis in Clinical Psychology]. Milan, Italy: Giuffré.
-  Cherry, K. (2010). What Is Abnormal Psychology? Retrieved from http://psychology.about.com/


=== Page 91 ===

-  Cordella, B., Cardarelli, L., and Pizzi, E. (2001). L’identità professionale dello psicologo: Competenze specifiche/capacità di orientarsi [The professional identity of psychologist: Specific skills/ professional orientation abilities]. In M. Grasso (Ed.), Modelli e Contesti dell’Intervento Psicologico (p. 352). Rome: Kappa.
-  Cordella, B., Greco, F., and Grasso, M. (2011, May 17–20). Strategies of Development of a Vision Rehabilitation Service. Paper presented at the 16th International Association of Psychology and Psychiatry for Adults and Children Conference: APPAC ’11, Athens, Greece.
-  Cruice, M. (2008). The contribution and impact of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health on quality of life in communication disorders. International Journal of Speech–Language Pathology, 10(1–2), 38–49. doi:10.1080/17549500701790520
-  Duchan, J. F. (2004). Where is the person in the ICF? International Journal of Speech–Language Pathology, 6(1), 63–65. doi:10.1080/14417040410001669444
-  Farr, R. M., and Moscovici, S. (1984). Social Representations. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.
-  Federici, S., and Meloni, F. (2010). WHODAS II: Disability self-evaluation in the ICF conceptual frame. In J. Stone, and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation (pp. 1–22). Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/en/article/299/
-  Federici, S., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2006). Un difficile accordo tra prevenzione e promozione. [Hard-won agreement between prevention and promotion]. Psicologia Clinica dello Sviluppo, 10(2), 330–334.
-  T. Shakespeare (Ed.), The Disability Reader: Social Science Perspectives (pp. 28–49). London: Cassell.
-  Finn, S. E. (2003). Therapeutic assessment of a man with “ADD.” Journal of Personality Assessment, 80(2), 115–129. doi:10.1207/S15327752JPA8002_01


=== Page 92 ===

-  Therapeutic Psychological Assessment: Illustration and Analysis of Philosophical Assumptions. Paper presented at the American Psychological Association Convention, Chicago, IL.
-  Fisher, and G. Stricker (Eds.), Intimacy (pp. 443–460). New York: Plenum.
-  Fougeyrollas, P., Cloutier, R., Bergeron, H., Cote, J., and St-Michel, G. (1999). The Quebec Classification: Disability Creation Process. Québec, Canada: International Network on the Disability Creation Process.
-  Freda, M. F. (2009). Narrazione e Intervento in Psicologia Clinica. Costruire, Pensare e Trasformare Narrazioni tra Logos e Pathos [Narration and Intervention in Clinical Psychology. Building, Thinking and Transform Narratives Between Logos and Pathos]. Napoli, Italy: Liguori Editore.
-  Gazzaniga, M. S. (1998). The Mind’s Past. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
-  Geyh, S., Peter, C., Müller, R., Bickenbach, J. E., Kostanjsek, N., Üstün, B. T., et al. (2011). The personal factors of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health in the Literature—A systematic review and content analysis. Disability and Rehabilitation, 33(13–14), 1089–1102. doi:10.3109/09638288.2010.523104
-  Girdler, S. J., Boldy, D. P., Dhaliwal, S. S., Crowley, M., and Packer, T. L. (2010). Vision self- management for older adults: A randomised controlled trial. British Journal of Ophthalmology, 94(2), 223. doi:10.1136/bjo.2008.147538
-  Godshalk, A. N., Brown, G. C., Brown, H. C., and Brown, M. M. (2008). The power of hope: Being a doctor is more than relying solely on the numbers. British Journal of Ophthalmology, 92(6), 783–787. doi:10.1136/bjo.2008.141663
-  Grasso, M. (2001). Modelli e Contesti dell’Intervento Psicologico [Models and Contexts of Psychological Intervention]. Rome: Kappa.
-  Grasso, M. (2010). La Relazione Terapeutica [The Therapeutic Relationship]. Bologna, Italy: Il Mulino.
-  Grasso, M., Cordella, B., and Pennella, A. R. (2003). L’Intervento in Psicologia Clinica: Fondamenti Teorici


=== Page 93 ===

-  [Intervention in Clinical Psychology: Theoretical Foundations]. Roma, Italy: Carocci.
-  Grasso, M., and Salvatore, L. (1997). Pensiero e Decisionalità. Contributo alla Critica della Prospettiva Individualista in Psicologia [Thinking and Decision-Making. A Contribution to the Critique of the Individualist Perspective in Psychology] (Vol. 134). Milan, Italy: Franco Angeli.
-  Greco, F. (in press). Resoconto Clinico di un Processo di Rieducazione in un CRPM di Parigi [Clinical Report of a Rehabilitation Process in a CPMR in Paris]. Rome: Nuova Cultura.
-  Gutenbrunner, C., Ward, A. B., and Chamberlain, M. A. (2007). White Book on Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine in Europe (Revised November 2009). Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, 45(Suppl), 1–48. doi:10.2340/16501977-0028
-  Hayeems, R. Z., Geller, G., Finkelstein, D., and Faden, R. R. (2005). How patients experience progressive loss of visual function: A model of adjustment using qualitative methods. British Journal of Ophthalmology, 89(5), 615–620. doi:10.1136/bjo.2003.036046
-  Henderson, S., Skelton, H., and Rosenbaum, P. (2008). Assistive devices for children with functional impairments: Impact on child and caregiver ffunction. Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology, 50(2), 89–98. doi:10.1111/j.1469-8749.2007.02021.x
-  Holman, H., and Lorig, K. (2000). Patients as partners in managing chronic disease. Partnership is a prerequisite for effective and efficient health care. British Medical Journal, 320(7234), 526–527. doi:10.1136/bmj.320.7234.526
-  Howe, T. J. (2008). The ICF contextual factors related to speech–language pathology. International Journal of Speech–Language Pathology, 10(1–2), 27–37. doi:10.1080/14417040701774824
-  Hunsley, J., and Meyer, G. J. (2003). The incremental validity of psychological testing and assessment: Conceptual, methodological, and statistical issues. Psychological Assessment, 15(4), 446–455. doi:10.1037/1040–3590.15.4.446


=== Page 94 ===

-  towards a theory and praxis of person- environment interaction in disability. Disability and Rehabilitation, 32(17), 1467–1474. doi:10.3109/ 09638280802590637
-  Kandel, E. R. (2000). From nerve cells to cognition: The internal cellular representation required for perception and action. In E. R. Kandel, J. H. Schwartz, and T. M. Jessell (Eds.), Principles of Neural Science (4th ed., pp. 381–403). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Kayes, N. M., and McPherson, K. M. (2010). Measuring what matters: Does ‘objectivity’ mean good science? Disability and Rehabilitation, 32(12), 1011–1019. doi:10.3109/09638281003775501
-  Khan, F., and Pallant, J. F. (2007). Use of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) to identify preliminary comprehensive and brief core sets for multiple sclerosis. Disability and Rehabilitation, 29(3), 205–213. doi:10.1080/09638280600756141
-  Lancia, F. (2004). Strumenti per l’Analisi dei Testi. Introduzione all’Uso di T-LAB [Tools for the Analysis of Texts. An Introduction to the Use of T-LAB]. Milan, Italy: Franco Angeli.
-  Lehman, C. A. (2003). Idiopathic intracranial hypertension within the ICF model: A review of the literature. Journal of Neuroscience Nursing, 35(5), 263–269. doi:10.1097/01376517-200310000-00004
-  Lenker, J. A., and Paquet, V. L. (2004). A new conceptual model for assistive technology outcomes research and practice. Assistive Technology, 16(1), 1–10. doi:10.1080/10400435.2004.10132069
-  Matte Blanco, I. (1975). The Unconscious as Infinite Sets: An Essay in Bi-logic. London: Gerald Duckworth & Co.
-  McInerney, R. G., and Walker, M. M. (2002). Toward a method of neurophenomenological assessment and intervention. Humanistic Psychologist, 30(3), 180–193. doi:10.1080/08873267.2002.9977034
-  Meloni, F., Federici, S., and Stella, A. (2011). The Psychologist’s Role: A Neglected Presence in the Assistive Technology Assessment Process. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens & K. Miesenberger (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011 (Vol. 29,


=== Page 95 ===

-  pp. 1199–1206). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-1199
-  Meyer, G. J., Finn, S. E., Eyde, L. D., Kay, G. G., Moreland, K. L., Dies, R., et al. (2001). Psychological testing and psychological assessment: A review of evidence and issues. American Psychologist, 56(2), 128–165. doi:10.1037/0003-066X.56.2.128
-  Mitani, S., Fujisawa, S., Mima, A., Shiota, H., Yanashima, K., Takahara, M., et al. (2007). The importance of measuring medical and psychological characteristics in visibility measurement of persons with low visual capability. In G. Eizmendi, J. M. Azkoitia, and G. Craddock (Eds.), Challenges for Assistive Technology: AAATE 07 (pp. 331–335). Amsterdam: IOS Press.
-  Moscovici, S. (1961). La Psychanalyse, son Image et Son Public [Psychoanalysis: Its Image and Its Public]. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.
-  Nair, K. P. S. (2003). Life goals: The concept and its relevance to rehabilitation. Clinical Rehabilitation, 17(2), 192–202. doi:10.1191/0269215503cr599oa
-  Neisser, U. (1989). Concepts and Conceptual Development: Ecological and Intellectual Factors in Categorization. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.
-  (2007). Proposition of a new mobility aid for older persons: Reducing psychological conflict associated with the use of assistive technologies. In G. Eizmendi, J. M. Azkoitia, and G. Craddock (Eds.), Challenges for Assistive Technology: AAATE 07 (pp. 80–84). Amsterdam: IOS Press.
-  Olkin, R. (1999). The personal, professional and political when clients have disabilities. Women and Therapy, 22(2), 87–103. doi:10.1300/J015v22n02_07
-  Pape, T. L.-B., Kim, J., and Weiner, B. (2002). The shaping of individual meanings assigned to assistive technology: A review of personal ffactors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 5–20. doi:10.1080/09638280110066235
-  Pfeiffer, D. (1998). The ICIDH and the need for its revision. Disability and Society, 13(4), 503–523.
-  Philips, B., and Zhao, H. (1993). Predictors of assistive technology abandonment. Assistive Technology, 5(1), 36–45.


=== Page 96 ===

-  ed.). New York: Wiley & Sons.
-  Poston, J. M., and Hanson, W. E. (2010). Meta-analysis of psychological assessment as a therapeutic intervention. Psychological Assessment, 22(2), 203–212. doi:10.1037/A001s679
-  Ricœur, P. (1976). Interpretation Theory: Discourse and the Surplus of Meaning. Fort Worth, TX: Texas Christian Press.
-  Riemer-Reiss, M. L., and Wacker, R. (2000). Factors associated with assistive technology discontinuance among individuals with disabilities. Journal of Rehabilitation, 66(3), 44–50.
-  Roulstone, A. (1998). Researching a disabling society: The case of employment and new technology. In T. Shakespeare (Ed.), The Disability Reader: Social Science Perspectives (pp. 110–128). London: Cassell.
-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2000). Living in the State of Stuck: How Technologies Affect the Lives of People with Disabilities (3rd ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (Ed.). (2002). Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Cross-Walking the ICF to a Measure of Assistive Technology Predisposition and Use. Paper presented at the 11th Annual North American Collaborating Center (NACC) Conference on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), Rochester, NY.
-  Scherer, M. J., Blair, K. L., Banks, M. E., Brucker, B., Corrigan, J., and Wegener, S. (2004). Rehabilitation psychology. In W. E. Craighead and C. B. Nemeroff (Eds.), The Concise Corsini Encyclopedia of Psychology and Behavioral Science (3rd ed., pp. 801–802). Hoboken, NJ:


=== Page 97 ===

-  Scherer, M. J., Craddock, G., and MacKeogh, T. (2011). The relationship of personal factors and subjective well-being to the use of assistive technology devices. Disability and Rehabilitation, 33(10), 811–817. doi:10.3109/09638288.2010.511418
-  Scherer, M. J., and Cushman, L. A. (2001). Measuring subjective quality of life following spinal cord injury: A validation study of the assistive technology device predisposition assessment. Disability and Rehabilitation, 23(9), 387–393. doi:10.1080/09638280010006665
-  Scherer, M. J., Cushman, L. A., and Federici, S. (2004, Jun 2). Measuring Participation and the Disability Experience with the “Assistive Technology Device Predisposition Assessment.” Paper presented at the American Collaborating Center (NACC) Conference on ICF: Advancing a Research Agenda for ICF. Retrieved from http://www.icfconference.com/downloads/Marcia_Scherer.pdf.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Dicowden, M. A. (2008). Organizing future research and intervention efforts on the impact and effects of gender differences on disability and rehabilitation: The usefulness of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Disability and Rehabilitation, 30(3), 161–165. doi:10.1080/09638280701532292
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Sen, A. (2002). Health: Perception versus observation. British Medical Journal (Clinical Research Edition), 324(7342), 860–861. doi:10.1136/bmj.324.7342.860
-  Söderström, S., and Ytterhus, B. (2010). The use and non-use of assistive technologies from the world of information and communication technology by visually impaired young people: A walk on the tightrope of peer inclusion. Disability and Society, 25(3), 303–315. doi:10.1080/09687591003701215
-  Steiner, W. A., Ryser, L., Huber, E., Uebelhart, D., Aeschlimann, A., and Stucki, G. (2002). Use of the ICF model as a clinical problem-solving tool in physical


=== Page 98 ===

-  therapy and rehabilitation medicine. Physical Therapy, 82(11), 1098–1107.
-  Stephens, D., and Kerr, P. (2000). Auditory disablements: An update. Audiology, 39(6), 322–332. doi:10.3109/00206090009098013
-  Telfener, U. (2011). Apprendere I Contesti. Strategie Per Inserirsi in Nuovi Ambiti Di Lavoro [Learning the Contexts. Strategies to Fit into New Contexts of Work]. Milan, Italy: Raffaello Cortina.
-  Tharinger, D. J., Finn, S. E., Gentry, L., Hamilton, A., Flower, J., Matson, M., et al. (2009). Therapeutic assessment with children: A pilot study of treatment acceptability and outcome. Journal of Personality Assessment, 91(3), 238–244. doi:10.1080/00223890902794275
-  Threats, T. T. (2003). The conceptual framework of ASHA’s new scope of practice for speech– language pathology. Speech Pathology Online. Retrieved from http://www.speechpathology.com
-  Threats, T. T. (2007). Access for persons with neurogenic communication disorders: Influences of personal and environmental factors of the ICF. Aphasiology, 21(1), 67–80. doi:10.1080/ 02687030600798303
-  Ueda, S., and Okawa, Y. (2003). The subjective dimension of functioning and disability: What is it and what is it for? Disability and Rehabilitation, 25(11–12), 596–601. doi:10.1080/0963828031000137108
-  Ugazio, V. (1989). La Costruzione della Conoscenza: l’Approccio Europeo alla Cognizione del Sociale [The Construction of Knowledge: The European Approach to Social Cognition]. Milan, Italy: Franco Angeli.
-  Uppal, S. (2006). Impact of the timing, type and severity of disability on the subjective well-being of individuals with disabilities. Social Science and Medicine, 63(2), 525–539. doi:10.1016/j. socscimed.2006.01.016
-  Verbrugge, L. M., and Jette, A. M. (1994). The disablement process. Social Science and Medicine, 38(1), 1–14. doi:10.1016/0277-9536(94)90294-1
-  Verza, R., Carvalho, M. L. L., Battaglia, M. A., and Uccelli, M. M. (2006). An interdisciplinary approach to evaluating the need for assistive technology reduces


=== Page 99 ===

-  equipment abandonment. Multiple Sclerosis, 12(1), 88–93. doi:10.1191/1352458506ms1233oa
-  Viol, M., Grotkamp, S., van Treeck, B., Nuchtern, E., Hagen, T., Manegold, B., et al. (2006). Personal contextual factors, Part I—A first attempt at a systematic, commented listing of personal contextual factors for sociomedical expertise in the German-speaking region. Gesundheitswesen, 68(12), 747–759. doi:10.1055/s-2006-927328
-  Wade, D. T. (2000). Personal context as a focus for rehabilitation. Clinical Rehabilitation, 14(2), 115–118. doi:10.1191/026921500672636483
-  Waldron, D., and Layton, N. (2008). Hard and soft assistive technology: Defining roles for clinicians. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal, 55(1), 61–64. doi:10.1111/j.1440-1630.2007.00707.x
-  Weigl, M., Cieza, A., Cantista, P., Reinhardt, J. D., and Stucki, G. (2008). Determinants of disability in chronic musculoskeletal health conditions: A literature review. European Journal of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, 44(1), 67–79.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (1980). ICIDH: International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities, and Handicaps. A Manual of Classification Relating to the Consequences of Disease. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2007). ICF-CY: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health—Children and Youth Version. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zimmer, Z., and Chappell, N. L. (1999). Receptivity to new technology among older adults. Disability and Rehabilitation, 21(5–6), 222–230. doi:10.1080/096382899297648
-  Zola, I. K. (1989). Toward the necessary universalizing of a disability policy. Milbank Quarterly, 67(Suppl. 2 Pt.


=== Page 100 ===

-  Zola, I. K. (1993). Disability statistics, what we count and what it tells us: A personal and political analysis. Journal of Disability Policy Studies, 4(2), 9–39. doi:10.1177/104420739300400202 This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 101 ===

-  9 9. The Psychotechnologist: A New Profession in the Assistive Technology Assessment
-  Bonk, C. J., and Graham, C. R. (2006). The Handbook of Blended Learning: Global Perspectives, Local Designs. San Francisco: Pfeiffer.
-  Bruner, J. S. (1977). The Process of Education: A Landmark in Educational Theory. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
-  Chisholm, W., Vanderheiden, G., and Jacobs, I. (1999). Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0— W3C Recommendation. Retrieved from http://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-WEBCONTENT/
-  Crombie, D., Lenoir, R., McKenzie, N., and Miesenberger, K. (2004). Interfacing the interface: Unification through separation. In C. Stary and C. Stephanidis (Eds.), User-Centered Interaction Paradigms for Universal Access in the Information Society (Vol. 3196, pp. 125–132). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-30111-0_10
-  CSUN. (2011). AT training program. Retrieved from http://www.csun.edu/cod/training/index.php
-  Darzentas, J., and Miesenberger, K. (2005). Design for all in information technology: A universal concern. In K. V. Andersen, J. Debenham, and R. Wagner (Eds.), Database and Expert Systems Applications (Vol. 3588, pp. 406–420). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/11546924_40
-  De Kerckhove, D. (1990). La Civilisation Vidéo-Crétienne. Paris: Retz/Atelier Alpha Blue.
-  De Kerckhove, D. (1991a). Brainframes. Technology, Mind and Business. Utrecht, The Netherlands: Bosch & Keuning.
-  De Kerckhove, D. (1991b). Communication arts for a new spatial sensibility. Leonardo, 24(2), 131–135. doi:10.2307/1575281
-  De Kerckhove, D. (1995). The Skin of Culture: Investigating the New Electronic Reality. Toronto, Canada: Somerville.
-  De Kerckhove, D. (2001). The Architecture of Intelligence. Berlin: Birkhäuser.
-  Demers, L., Weiss-Lambrou, R., and Ska, B. (2000). Item analysis of the Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction


=== Page 102 ===

-  with Assistive Technology (QUEST). Assistive Technology, 12(2), 96–105. doi:10.108 0/10400435.2000.10132015
-  Demers, L., Weiss-Lambrou, R., and Ska, B. (2002). The Quebec User Evaluation of Satisfaction with Assistive Technology (QUEST 2.0): An Overview and Recent Progress. Technology and Disability, 14(3), 101–105. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/content/b23egtty2mph84b0/
-  Federici, S. (2002). Linee-Guida di Psicotecnologie [Guidelines on Psychotechnology]. Graduate course on Psychotechnology for learning. Department of Psychology. Sapienza University of Rome. Rome, Italy. Retrieved from http://www.psicologia1.uniroma1.it/cgilocal/didattica. cgi?FileManager = 60
-  Federici, S., Corradi, F., Mele, M. L., and Miesenberger, K. (2011). From cognitive ergonomist to psychotechnologist: A new professional profile in a multidisciplinary team in a centre for technical aids. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens and K. Miesenberger (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011 (Vol. 29, pp. 1178–1184). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-1178
-  Federici, S., and Borsci, S. (2010). Usability evaluation: models, methods, and applications. In J. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation. Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/article.php?id = 277&language = en
-  Federici, S., Borsci, S., Mele, M. L., and Stamerra, G. (2010). Web Popularity: An Illusory Perception of a Qualitative Order in Information. Universal Access in the Information Society, 9(4), 375–386. doi:10.1007/s10209-009-0179-7
-  Federici, S., Micangeli, A., Ruspantini, I., Borgianni, S., Corradi, F., Pasqualotto, E., et al. (2005). Checking an integrated model of web accessibility and usability evaluation for disabled people. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(13), 781–790. doi:10.1080/09638280400014766
-  Federici, S., Scherer, M. J., Micangeli, A., Lombardo, C., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2003). A Crosscultural analysis of relationships between disability


=== Page 103 ===

-  self-evaluation and individual predisposition to use assistive technology. In G. M. Craddock, L. P. McCormack, R. B. Reilly and H. T. P. Knops (Eds.), Assistive Technology—Shaping the Future (pp. 941–946). Amsterdam: IOS Press.
-  Gibson, J. J. (1979). The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
-  Gustavsson, A., and Zakrzewska-Manterys, E. (1997). Social Definitions of Disability. Kraków, Poland: Wydawnictwo “Żak.”
-  Halasz, F. G., and Moran, T. P. (1983). Mental Models and Problem Solving in Using a Calculator. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Boston, MA.
-  Koffka, K. (Ed.). (1935). Principles of Gestalt Psychology. New York: Harcourt, Brace.
-  Lewis, C. (1982). Using the “Thinking Aloud” Method in Cognitive Interface Design. (RC-9265 (#40713)). Retrieved from http://www.watson.ibm.com/index.shtml
-  Lifetool. (2004). Informations- und Kommunikationstechnologie für Menschen im Alter. Retrieved from
-  Matausch, K., Hengstberger, B., and Miesenberger, K. (2006). “Assistec”—A university course on assistive technologies. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler, and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 4061, pp. 361–368). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/11788713_54
-  Miesenberger, K. (1998). Informatik für Sehgeschädigte, Soziale Aufgabenstellung einer Technischen Disziplin. Doctoral Dissertation, Universität Linz, Linz, Austria.
-  Miesenberger, K. (2004). Equality = e-quality. “Design for all” und “accessibility” als Grundlage für eine demokratische, offene und inklusive Gesellschaft. In E. Feyerer and W. Pammer (Eds.), Qual-I-Tät und Integration. Beiträge Zum 8. Praktikerinnenforum (Vol. 16, pp. 405–416). Linz, Austria: Universitätsverlag Rudolf Trauner.
-  Miesenberger, K. (2006, Sep 13–15). BFWD and Assistec: Two University Degrees Relevant to Design for All: Accessible Web Design and Assistive Technologies. Paper presented at


=== Page 104 ===

-  the International Design for All Conference, Rovaniemi, Finland. Retrieved from http://dfasuomi.stakes.fi/ EN/dfa2006/rovaniemi/
-  Miesenberger, K. (2009a). Best practice in design for all. In C. Stephanidis (Ed.), The Universal Access Handbook (p. 58). Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.
-  Miesenberger, K. (2009b). Design for all principles. In C. Sik Lányi (Ed.), Principles and Practice in Europe for e-Accessibility (pp. 15–25). Veszprém, Hungary: EDeAN Publication 2009, Panonia University Press.
-  Miesenberger, K., Hengstberger, B., and Batusic, M. (2010). Web_Access: Education on Accessible Web Design. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 6179, pp. 404–407). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/ 978-3-642-14097-6_64
-  Retrieved from http://moodle.org/
-  Norman, D. A. (1983). Some observations on mental models. In D. Gentner and A. L. Steven (Eds.), Mental Models (pp. 7–14). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Earlbaum Associates.
-  Realtà [The construction of reality]. Torino, Italy: Boringhieri.
-  SART. (1999). Sommerakademie für Rehabilitationstechnik. Retrieved from http://www.is.tuwien. ac.at/fortec/reha.d/projects/sart/sart.html
-  Scherer, M. J. (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Living in the State of Stuck: How Technologies Affect the Lives of People with Disabilities (4th ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  SIVA. (2011). Educational Activities. Retrieved from http://www.siva.it/eng/education/default. htm
-  TeleMate. (2011). TeleMate: Assistive Technology Devices. Retrieved from http://www.telemate. org/


=== Page 105 ===

-  W3C/WAI. (2011). Policies Relating to Web Accessibility. Retrieved from http://www.w3.org/ WAI/Policy/
-  Wharton, C., Rieman, J., Lewis, C., and Polson, P. G. (1994). The cognitive walkthrough method: A practitioner’s guide. In J. Nielsen and R. L. Mack (Eds.), Usability Inspection Methods (pp. 105–140). New York: John Wiley & Sons.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2007). ICF-CY: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health—Children and Youth Version. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.


=== Page 106 ===

-  Adler, P. (2002). Efficacy of treatment for convergence insufficiency using vision therapy. Ophthalmic & Physiology Optics, 22(6), 565–571.
-  Bardini, R. (1982). La Funzione Visiva Nell’analisi Optometrica. Società Italiana d’Optometria. Asti.
-  Birnbaum, M. H. (1985). Nearpoint visual stress: Clinical implications. Journal of the American Optometric Association, 56(6), 480–490.
-  Birnbaum M. H. (1993). Optometric Management of Nearpoint Vision Disorders. Oxford, UK: Butterworth Heinemann.
-  Catalano, F. (2006). Elementi di Ottica Generale. Bologna, Italy: Zanichelli.
-  Contreras, R., Ghajar, J., Bahar, S., and Suh, M. (2011). Effect of cognitive load on eye-target synchronization during smooth pursuit eye movement. Brain Research, 1398, 55–63.
-  Denes, G., and Pizzamiglio, L. (1996). Manuale Di Neuropsicologia. Bologna, Italy: Zanichelli.
-  Gallaway, M. (2002). Optometric vision therapy. Binocular Vision & Strabismus Quarterly, 17(2), 82.
-  Greene, H. H., Pollatsek, A., Masserang, K., Lee, Y. J., & Rayner, K. (2010). Directional processing within the perceptual span during visual target localization. Vision Research, 50(13), 1274–1282.
-  Griffin, J. (1982). Binocular Anomalies Procedures for Vision Therapy. Oxford, UK: Butterworth-Heinemann.
-  Hubel, D. H. (1995). Eye, Brain and Vision. Scientific American Library, No. 22. New York: WH Freeman.
-  Leslie, S. (2004). The optometrist’s role in learning difficulties and dyslexia. Clinical and Experimental Optometry Journal, 87(1), 1–3.
-  Liuzzi, L., and Bartoli, F. (2002). Manuale di Oftalmologia. Torino, Italy: Minerva Medica.
-  Martinoli, C., and Delpino, E. (2009). Manuale di Riabilitazione Visiva per Ciechi ed Ipovedenti. Milan,


=== Page 107 ===

-  Orlandi, M. (2003). I Deficit Visivi nella Dislessia. Acta Phoniatrica Latina, XXV, 85–95.
-  Padula V. W. (1996). Neuro-Optometric Rehabilitation, Santa Ana, CA: Optometric Extension Program.
-  Phillips, M. H., and Edelman, J. A. (2008). The dependence of visual scanning performance on search direction and difficulty. Vision Research, 48(21), 2184–2192.
-  Rossetti, A., and Gheller, P. (1997). Manuale di Optometria e Contattologia. Bologna, Italy: Zanichelli.
-  Sabbadini, G., Bianchi P. E., Fazzi E., and Sabbadini M. (2000). Manuale di Neuroftalmologia dell’età Evolutiva. Milan, Italy: Franco Angeli.
-  Sabel, B. A., and Kasten, E. (2000). Restoration of vision by training of residual functions. Current Opinion in Ophthalmology, 11(6), 430–436.
-  Saunders, K. J., Little, J. A., McClelland, J. F., and Jackson, A. J. (2010). Profile of refractive errors in cerebral palsy: Impact of severity of motor impairment (GMFCS) and CP subtype on refractive outcome. Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 51(6), 2885–2890.
-  Shainberg, M. J. (2010). Vision therapy and orthoptics. The American Orthoptic Journal, 60, 28–32.
-  Traccis, S. (1992). Il Nistagmo Fisiologico e Patologico. Bologna, Italy: Pàtron Editore.
-  Traccis, S., and Zambarbieri D. (1992). I Movimenti Saccadici. Bologna, Italy: Pàtron Editore.
-  Traccis, S., and Zambarbieri D. (1996). Le Interazioni Visuo-Vestibolari. Bologna, Italy: Pàtron Editore.
-  Yeotikar, N. S., Khuu, S. K., Asper, L. J., and Suttle, C. M. (2011). Configuration specificity of crowding in peripheral vision. Vision Research, 51(11), 1239–1248.
-  American Academy of Ophthalmology. (2001). Complementary Therapy Assessment: Vision Therapy for Learning


=== Page 108 ===

-  Disabilities, Retrieved from http://one.aao.org/CE/PracticeGuidelines/ Therapy_ Content.aspx?cid=8021c013–7e4b-43f3-aa1a-698307ae526c
-  American Academy of Ophthalmology. (2004). Complementary Therapy Assessment. Visual Training for Refractive Errors. Retrieved from http://one.aao.org/asset. axd?id=2907836b-705a-4509-b86f-e2c493b7ca0
-  Bankes, J. L. (1974). Eye defects of mentally handicapped children. British Medical Journal, 8(5918), 533–535.
-  Barrett, B. T. (2009). A critical evaluation of the evidence supporting the practice of behavioral vision therapy. Ophthalmic & Physiological Optics, 29(1), 4–25.
-  Birnbaum, M. H., Soden, R., and Cohen, A. H. (1999). Efficacy of vision therapy for convergence insufficiency in an adult male population. Journal of the American Optometric Association, 70, 225–232.
-  Di Blasi, F. D., Elia, F., Buono, S., Ramakers, G. J, and Di Nuovo, S. F. (2007). Relationships between visual-motor and cognitive abilities in intellectual disabilities. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 104(3 Pt 1), 763–772.
-  Forrest, E. B. (1976). Clinical manifestations of visual information processing. Journal of the American Optometric Association, 47(1), 73–80.
-  Harris, J. M., Nefs, H. T., and Grafton, C. E. (2008). Binocular vision and motion-in-depth. Spatial Vision, 21(6), 531–547.
-  Jennings, J. A. M. (2000). Behavioral optometry: A critical review. Optometric Practice, 1, 67.
-  Judica, A., De Luca, M., Di Pace, E., Orlandi, M., Spinelli, D., and Zoccolotti, P. (1998). Dislessia superficiale in un soggetto adulto: Analisi del comportamento di lettura e trattamento riabilitativo. Archivio di Psicologia Neurologia ePsichiatria, LIX, 729–755.
-  current treatment. Current Opinion in Ophthalmology, 21(5), 356–360.
-  Sabbadini, G., Bonini P., Pezzarossa B., and Pierro M. (1978). Paralisi Cerebrali e Condizioni Affini. Rome: Il


=== Page 109 ===

-  Scheiman, M. (2002). Understanding and Managing Vision Deficits: A Guide for Occupational Therapists, 2nd ed. Philadelphia: Slack Inc.
-  Scheiman, M., Mitchell, G. L., Cotter, S., Kulp, M. T., Cooper, J., Rouse, M., et al. (2005). A randomized clinical trial of vision therapy/orthoptics versus pencil pushups for the treatment of convergence insufficiency in young adults. Optometry and Vision Science, 123(1), 14–24.
-  Scheiman, M. M., and Rouse, M. W. (2006). Optometric Management of Learning-Related Vision Problems, 2nd ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby Elsevier.
-  Scheiman, M., Rouse, M., Kulp, M. T., Cotter, S., Hertle, R., and Lynn, M. G. (2009). Treatment of convergence insufficiency in childhood: A current perspective. Optometry and Vision Science, 86(5), 420–428.
-  Skeffington, A. M. (1964). Introduction to Clinical Optometry. Optometric Extension Programme Continuing Education Courses, Vol. 37. Santa Ana, CA: Optometric Extension Program.
-  Solt, I. (2001). The representation of the egocentric space in the posterior parietal cortex. Harefuah, 140(6), 553–557.
-  Stein, J. F. (1989). Representation of egocentric space in the posterior parietal cortex. Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology, 74(5), 583–606.
-  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. (2004). Screening for visual impairment in children younger than age 5 years: Recommendation statement. Annals of Family Medicine, 2(3), 263–266.
-  Vera-Diaz, F. A., Gwiazda, J., Thorn, F., and Held, R. (2004). Increased accommodation following adaptation to image blur in myopes. Journal of Vision, 4(12), 1111–1119.
-  Vora, U., Khandekar, R., Natrajan, S., and Al-Hadrami, K. (2010). Refractive error and visual functions in children with special needs compared with the first grade school students in Oman. Middle East African Journal of Ophthalmology, 17(4), 297–302.


=== Page 110 ===

-  M., Di Pace, E., Judica, A., et al. (1997). Caratteristiche della dislessia superficiale evolutiva nella lingua italiana. Archivio di Neurologia e Psichiatria, LVIII, 253–284.


=== Page 111 ===

-  11 11. The Occupational Therapist: Enabling Activities and Participation Using Assistive Technology
-  Alliance for Technology Access. (2005). Computer and Web Resources for People with Disabilities. Berkeley, CA: Hunter House.
-  Bain, B. K., and Leger, D. (1997). Assistive Technology: An Interdisciplinary Approach. New York, NY, US: Churchill Livingstone.
-  Baum, C. M. (1998). Achieving effectiveness with a client centred approach: A person-environment interaction. In D. B. Gray, L. A. Quatrano and M. L. Lieberman (Eds.), Designing and Using Assistive Technology (pp. 137–147). Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes.
-  Brown, C. E. (2009). Ecological models in occupational therapy. In E. B. Crepeau, E. S. Cohn, and B. A. Boyt Schell (Eds.), Willard and Spackman’s Occupational Therapy (11th ed., pp. 435–445). Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.
-  Christiansen C. H., and Baum, C. M. (1997). Person-environment occupational performance: A conceptual model for practice, In C. H. Christiansen, and C. M. Baum (Eds.), Occupational Therapy: Enabling Function and Well-Being (2nd ed., pp. 46–71). Thorofare, NJ: Slack Inc.
-  Cook, A. M., Polgar, J. M., and Hussey, S. M. (2007). Cook & Hussey’s Assistive Technologies: Principles and Practice (3rd ed.). St. Louis, MO: Mosby Elsevier.
-  Cowan, D., and Turner-Smith, A. (1999). The user’s perspective on the provision of electronic assistive technology: Equipped for life? British Journal of Occupational Therapy, 62(1), 2–6.
-  de Jonge, D., Scherer, M. J., and Rodger, S. (2007). Assistive Technology in the Workplace. St. Louis, MO: Mosby Elsevier.
-  Dunn, W., Brown, C., and McGuigan, A. (1994). The ecology of human performance: A framework for considering the impact of context. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 48, 595–607.
-  Enders, A. and Leech, P. (1996). Low-technology aids for daily living and do-it-yourself devices. In J. C. Galvin


=== Page 112 ===

-  and M. J. Scherer (Eds.), Evaluating, Selecting and Using Appropriate Assistive Technology (pp. 30–39). Gaithersburg, MD: Aspen Publishers, Inc.
-  Kelker, K., and Holt, R. (2000). Family Guide to Assistive Technology. Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Kielhofner, G. (2004). The development of occupational therapy knowledge. In G. Kielhofner (Ed.), Conceptual Foundations of Occupational Therapy (3rd ed., pp. 27–63). Philadelphia: F. A. Davis.
-  Law, M., and Baum, C. M. (2005). Measurement in occupational therapy. In M. Law, C. Baum, and W. Dunn (Eds.), Measuring Occupational Performance: Supporting Best Practice in Occupational Therapy (pp. 3–20). Thorofare, NJ: SLACK Inc.
-  Law, M., Baptiste, S., Carswell, A., McColl, M., Polatajko, H., and Pollock, N. (1994). Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (2nd ed.). Toronto, Ontario, Canada: Canadian Association of Occupational Therapists.
-  Law, M., Cooper, B., Strong, S., Stewart, D., Rigby, P., and Letts, L. (1996). The Person-EnvironmentOccupation Model: A transactive approach to occupational performance. Canadian Journal of Occupational Therapy, 63(1), 9–23.
-  Litvak, S. and Enders, A. (2001). Support systems: The interface between individuals and environments. In G.L. Albrecht, K. D. Seelman, and M. Bury (Eds.), Handbook of Disability Studies (pp. 711–733). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.
-  Long, T. M., and Perry, D. F. (2008). Pediatric physical therapists’ perceptions of their training in assistive technology. Physical Therapy, 88(5), 629–639. doi:10.2522/ptj.20060356
-  Long, T. M., Woolverton, M., Perry, D. F., and Thomas, M. J. (2007). Training needs of pediatric occupational therapists in assistive technology. The American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 61(3), 345–354. doi:10.5014/ajot.61.3.345
-  Malec, J. (1999). Goal attainment scaling in rehabilitation. Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, 9(3), 253– 275. doi:10.1080/096020199389365
-  Nochajski, S. M., and Oddo, C. R. (1995). Technology in the


=== Page 113 ===

-  workplace. In W. C. Mann and J. P. Lane (Eds.), Assistive Technology for People with Disabilities (2nd ed., pp. 197–261). Bethesda, MD: AOTA.
-  Ostensjo, S., Carlberg, E. B., and Vollestad, N. (2005). The use and impact of assistive devices and other environmental modifications on everyday activities and care in young children with cerebral palsy. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(14), 849–861. doi:10.1080/09638280400018619
-  Patterson, D. R., Jensen, M., and Engel-Knowles, J. (2002). Pain and its influence on assistive technology use. In M. J. Scherer (Ed.), Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation (pp. 59–76). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2000). Living In a State of Stuck: How Technology Impacts the Lives on People with Disabilities (3rd ed.). Cambridge, MA: Brookline Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Assessing the benefits of using assistive technologies and other supports for thinking, remembering and learning. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(13), 731–739. doi:10.1080/09638280400014816
-  Scherer, M. J., and Galvin, J. C. (1996). An outcomes perspective to quality pathways to the most appropriate technology. In J. C. Galvin and M. Scherer (Eds.), Evaluating, Selecting, and Using Appropriate Assistive Technology (pp. 1–26). Gaithersburg, MD: Aspen.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Vitaliti, L. T. (1997). Functional approach to technological factors and their assessment in rehabilitation. In S. S. Dittmar and G. E. Gresham (Eds.), Functional Assessment and Outcome Measures for the Health Rehabilitation Professional (pp. 69–88). Gaithersburg, MD: Aspen.
-  Sprigle, S., and Abdelhamied, A. (1998). The relationship between ability measures and assistive technology selection, design and use. In D. B. Gray, L. A. Quatrano, and M. L. Lieberman (Eds.), Designing and Using Assistive Technology: The Human Perspective (pp. 229–248). Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes.
-  Waldron, D., and Layton, N. (2008). Hard and soft assistive technology: Defining roles for clinicians. Australian Occupational Therapy Journal, 55(1), 61–64. doi:10.1111/j.1440–1630.2007.00707.x


=== Page 114 ===

-  Wessels, R., Persson, J., Lorentsen, Ø., Andrich, R., Ferrario, M., Oortwijn, W., et al. (2002). IPPA: Individually prioritised problem assessment. Technology and Disability, 14(3), 141–145. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/content/2bm793b7pbdah9bw/
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2004). A Glossary of Terms for Community Health Care and Services for Older Persons. (WHO/WKC/Tech.Ser./04.2). Retrieved from http://whqlibdoc.who.int/ wkc/2004/WHO_WKC_Tech.Ser._04.2.pdf.


=== Page 115 ===
12 12. Pediatric Specialists in Assistive Solutions
-  Bakeit, A. M. (1996). Effective teamwork in rehabilitation. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 19, 301–306.
-  Blackstone, S., Williams, M., and Wilkins, D. (2007). Key principles underlying AAC research. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 23(3), 191–203. doi:10.1080/07434610701553684
-  Bottos, M., Feliciangeli, A., Sciuto, L., Gericke, C., and Vianello, A. (2001). Functional status of adults with cerebral palsy and implications for treatment of children. Developmental Med Child Neurology, 43(8), 516–528. doi:10.1017/S0012162201000950
-  Braga, L. W. (2000). Family participation in the rehabilitation of the child with traumatic brain injury. Journal of Neupsychology Society, 6, 388.
-  Braga, L. W. (2006). The context-sensitive family-based approach: Basic principles. In L. W. Braga, and A. Campos da Paz, Jr, (Eds.), The Child with Traumatic Brain Injury or Cerebral Palsy: A Context-Sensitive, Family-Based Approach to Development (pp. 1–16). Oxford, UK: Taylor & Francis.
-  Braga, L. W. (2009). Should we empower the family? Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 12(4), 179–180. doi:10.1080/17518420903102001
-  FIGURE 12.11
-  interaction.
-  Braga, L. W., and Campos da Paz, Jr, A. (2006). The Child with Traumatic Brain Injury or Cerebral Palsy: A Context-Sensitive, Family-Based Approach to Development. Oxford, UK: Taylor & Francis.
-  Braga L. W., da Paz Júnior, A. C., and Ylvisaker, M. (2005). Direct clinician-delivered versus indirect family-supported rehabilitation of children with traumatic brain injury: a randomized controlled trial. Brain Injury, 19(10), 819–831. doi:10.1080/02699050500110165


=== Page 116 ===

-  augmentative and alternative communication methods with infants and toddlers with disabilities: A research review. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 25(4), 274–286. doi:10.3109/07434610903384529
-  Campos da Paz, Jr, A., Burnett, S. M., and Nomura, A. M. (1996). Cerebral palsy. In R. B. Duthie, Mercers’s Orthopedic Surgery. London: Arnold.
-  Cattelani R, L. F. (1998). Traumatic brain injury in childhood: Intellectual, behavioural and social outcome into adulthood. Brain Injury, 12(4), 283–296. doi:10.1080/026990598122584
-  Copley, J., and Ziviani, J. (2007). Use of a team-based approach to assistive technology assessment and planning for children with multiple disabilities: A pilot study. Assistive Technology, 19(3), 109–125. doi:10.1080/10400435.2007.10131869
-  Fallon, K. A., Light, J., and Achenbach, A. (2003). The semantic organization patterns of young children: Implications for augmentative and alternative communication. AAC Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 19(2), 74–85. doi:10.1080/0743461031000112061
-  Fallon, K. A., Light, J. C., and Paige, T. K. (2001). Enhancing vocabulary selection for preschoolers who require augmentative and alternative communication (AAC). American Journal Speech and Language Pathology, 10(1), 81–94. doi:10.1044/1058–0360(2001/010)
-  settings. ASHA, 35(6–7), 34–48.
-  Hinojosa, J., Sproat, C. T., Mankhetwit, S., and Anderson, J. (2002). Shifts in parent-therapist partnerships: Twelve years of change. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 56(5), 556–563. doi:10.5014/ajot.56.5.556
-  Huang, I., Sugden, D., and Beveridge, S. (2009). Children’s perceptions of their use of assistive devices in home and school settings. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 4(2), 95–105. doi:10.1080/17483100802613701
-  Jahiel, R. I., and Scherer, M. J. (2010). Initial steps towards a theory and praxis of personenvironment interaction in disability. Disability and Rehabilitation, 32(17), 1467–1474. doi:10.3109/09638280802590637


=== Page 117 ===

-  Jans, L. H., and Scherer, M. J. (2006). Assistive technology training: Diverse audiences and multidisciplinary content. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 1(1–2), 69–77. doi:10.1080/09638280500167290
-  Kellegrew, D. (2000). Constructing daily routines: A qualitative examination of mothers with young children with disabilities. American Journal Occupational Therapy, 54(3), 252–259. doi:10.5014/ ajot.54.3.252
-  Ketelaar, M, Vermeer, A., Hart, H., van Petegem-van Beek, E., and Helders, P. J. (2001). Effects of a functional therapy program on motor abilities of children with cerebral palsy. Physical Therapy, 81(9), 1534–1545.
-  King, J., Nelson, T., and Heye ML, Turturro, T. C., and Titus, M. N. D. (1998). Prescriptions, referrals, order writing, and the rehabilitation team function. In J. A. DeLisa, and Bruce M. Gans (Eds.), Rehabilitation Medicine: Principles and Practice (pp. 269–285). Philadelphia: Lippincott-Raven.
-  King, S., Teplicky, R., King, G., and Rosenbaum, P. (2004). Family-centered service for children with cerebral palsy and their families: A review of the literature. Seminars in Pediatric Neurology, 11(1), 78–86. doi:10.1016/j.spen.2004.01.009
-  Körner, M. (2010). Interprofessional teamwork in medical rehabilitation: A comparison of multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary team approach. Clinical Rehabilitation, 24(8), 745–754. doi: 10.1177/0269215510367538
-  Leontiev, A. N. (1978). O Desenvolvimento do Psiquismo. Lisbon, Portugal: Livros Horizonte.
-  Lindsay, S., and Tsybina, I. (2011). Predictors of unmet needs for communication and mobility assistive devices among youth with a disability: The role of socio-cultural factors. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 6(1), 10–21. doi:10.3109/17483107.2010.514972
-  McDougall, J., Wright, V., and Rosenbaum, P. (2010). The ICF model of functioning and disability: Incorporating quality of life and human development. Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 13(3), 204–211. doi:10.3109/17518421003620525


=== Page 118 ===

-  McDougall, J., Wright, V., Schmidt, J., Miller, L., and Lowry, K. (2011). Applying the ICF framework to study changes in quality-of-life for youth with chronic conditions. Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 14(1), 41–53. doi:10.3109/17518423.2010.521795
-  McNaughton, D., Rackensperger, T., Benedek-Wood, E., Krezman, C., Williams, B., and Light, J. (2008). “A child needs to be given a chance to succeed”: Parents of individuals who use AAC describe the benefits and challenges of learning AAC technologies. AAC Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 24(1), 43–55. doi:10.1080/07434610701421007
-  Murchland, S., and Parkyn, H. (2010). Using assistive technology for schoolwork: The experience of children with physical disabilities. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 5(6), 438– 447. doi:10.3109/17483107.2010.481773
-  Murphy, J., Markova, I., Collins, S., and Moodie, E. (1996). AAC systems: Obstacles to effective use. European Journal of Disorders of Communication, 31(1), 31–44. doi:10.3109/13682829609033150
-  OPS/OMS. (2008). Classificação Internacional de Funcionalidade, Incapacidade e Saúde. São Paulo, Brazil: EDUSP.
-  children with cerebral palsy: Functional skills, caregiver assistance, and modifications of the environment. Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology, 45(9), 603–612. Retrieved from http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12948327
-  Pennington, L., Goldbart, J., and Marshall, J. (2004). Speech and language therapy to improve the communication skills of children with cerebral palsy. International Journal of Language & Communication Disorders, 39(2), 151–170. doi:10.1080/13682820310001625598
-  Pueyo-Benito, R., and Vendrell-Gomez, P. (2002). [Neuropsychology of cerebral palsy]. Revista de Neurología, 34, 1080–1087.
-  Puyuelo, M. S. (2001). Problemas de linguagem na paralisia cerebral:diagnóstico e tratamento. In M. S. Puyuelo, P. Póo, C. Basil, and M. Le Métayer, (Eds.), A Fonoaudiologia na Paralisia Cerebral: Diagnóstico e Tratamento (pp.


=== Page 119 ===

-  Raghavendra, P., Bornman, J., Grandlund, M., and Björck-Akesson, E. (2007). The World Health Organization’s International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health: Implications for clinical and research practice in the field of augmentative and alternative communication. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 23(4), 349–361. doi:10.1080/07434610701650928
-  Ripat, J., and Woodgate, R. (2011). The intersection of culture, disability and assistive technology. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 6(2), 87–96. doi:10.3109/17483107.2010.507859
-  Scherer, M. J. (1996). Outcomes of assistive technology use on quality of life. Disability and Rehabilitation, 18(9), 439–448. doi:10.3109/09638289609165907
-  Scherer, M. J. (2004). The matching person and technology model. In M. J. Scherer, (Ed.), Connecting to Learn: Educational and Assistive Technology for People with Disabilities (pp. 183–201). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Assessing the benefits of using assistive technologies and other supports for thinking, remembering and learning. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(13), 731–739. doi:10.1080/09638280400014816
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. M. (2002). Matching Person and Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology & Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/ content/g0eft4mnlwly8y8g
-  Scherer, M. J., Craddock, G., and MacKeogh, T. (2011). The relationship of personal factors and subjective well-being to the use of assistive technology devices. Disability and Rehabilitation, 33(10), 811–817. doi:10.3109/09638288.2010.511418
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C. L., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800
-  Skär, L. (2002). Disabled children’s perceptions of technical aids, assistance and peers in play situations. Scandinavian Journal of Caring Sciences, 16(1), 27–33. doi:


=== Page 120 ===

-  Stoner, J. B., Maureen, E., and Angell, R. L. (2010). Implementing augmentative and alternative communication in inclusive educational settings: A case study. AAC Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 26(2), 122–135. doi:10.3109/07434618.2010.481092
-  Strauss, D., Ojdana, K., Shavelle, R., and Rosenbloom, L. (2004). Decline in function and life expectancy of older persons with cerebral palsy. Neurorehabilitation, 19, 69–78. Retrieved from http:// iospress.metapress.com/content/egevj8d1dyv9wpr7/
-  Vygostsky, L. V. (1984). A Formação Social da Mente. São Paulo, Brazil: Martins Fontes.
-  Brazil: Martins Fontes.
-  Warzak, W. J., Allan, T. M., Ford, L. A., and Stefans, V. (1995). Common obstacles to the daily functioning of pediatric traumatically brain injured patients: Perceptions of caregivers and psychologists. Child Health Care, 24(2), 133–141. doi:10.1207/s15326888chc2402_5
-  Wilson, D. J., Mitchell, J. M., Kemp, B. J., Adkins, R. H., and Mann, W. (2009). Effects of assistive technology on functional decline in people aging with a disability. Assistive Technology, 21(4), 208–217. doi:10.1080/10400430903246068
-  Ylvisaker, M. (1998). Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation: Children and Adolescents. Woburn, MA: Butterworth-Heinemann.


=== Page 121 ===

-  AAATE. (2003). AAATE position paper: A 2003 view on Technology and Disability Retrieved from http://www.aaate.net/
-  Abellan van Kan, G., Rolland, Y., Houles, M., Gillette-Guyonnet, S., Soto, M., and Vellas, B. (2010). The assessment of frailty in older adults. Clinics in Geriatric Medicine, 26(2), 275–286. doi:10.1016/j. cger.2010.02.002.
-  Achenbaum, W. A. (1995). Crossing Frontiers: Gerontology Emerges as a Science. New York: Cambridge University Press.
-  Alexopoulos, G. S. (2005). Depression in the elderly. Lancet, 365(9475), 1961–1970. doi:10.1016/ S0140-6736(05)66665-2.
-  Alexopoulos, G. S., Buckwalter, K., Olin, J., Martinez, R., Wainscott, C., and Krishnan, K. R. R. (2002). Comorbidity of late life depression: An opportunity for research on mechanisms and treatment. Biological Psychiatry, 52(6), 543–558. doi:10.1016/S0006-3223(02)01468-3.
-  Alqasemi, R. M., McCaffrey, E. J., Edwards, K. D., and Dubey, R. V. (2005, Jun 28-Jul 1). Analysis, Evaluation and development of Wheelchair-Mounted Robotic Arms. Paper presented at the 9th International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics: ICORR ’05, Chicago. doi:10.1109/ ICORR.2005.1501144.
-  American Geriatrics Society Core Writing Group of the Task Force on the Future of Geriatric Medicine. (2005). Caring for older Americans: The future of geriatric medicine. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 53(Suppl 6), S245-S256. doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2005.53350.x.
-  Arthanat, S., and Lenker, J. A. (2004). Evaluating the ICF as a Framework for Clinical Assessment of Persons for Assistive Technology Device Recommendation. Paper presented at the 10th North American Collaborating Centre (NACC) Conference on ICF, Halifax, Nova Scotia. Retrieved from http://
-  Asplund, K., Carlberg, B., and Sundström, G. (1992). Stroke in the elderly. Cerebrovascular Diseases, 2(3), 152-157. doi:10.1159/000109007.
-  Batstra, L., Bos, E. H., and Neeleman, J. (2002).


=== Page 122 ===

-  Quantifying psychiatric comorbidity—Lessions from chronic disease epidemiology. Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology, 37(3), 105–111. doi:10.1007/s001270200001.
-  Brandtstädter, J., and Renner, G. (1990). Tenacious goal pursuit and flexible goal adjustment: Explication and age-related analysis of assimilative and accommodative strategies of coping. Psychology and Aging, 5(1), 58–67. doi:10.1037/0882-7974.5.1.58.
-  Brown, C. J., and Peel, C. (2009). Rehabilitation. In J. B. Halter, J. G. Ouslander, M. E. Tinetti, S. Studenski, K. P. High, and S. Asthana (Eds.), Hazzard’s Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology (6th ed., pp. 343–358). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Cesta, A., Bahadori, S., Cortellessa, G., Grisetti, G., Giuliani, M., Locchi, L., et al. (2003, Jun 26–29). The Robocare Project Cognitive Systems for the Care of the Elderly. Paper presented at the International Conference on Aging, Disability and Independence: ICADI ’03, Washington, DC.
-  Scopelliti, M., and Tiberio, L. (2011). Monitoring elderly people with the Robocare Domestic Environment: Interaction synthesis and user evaluation. Computational Intelligence, 27(1), 60–82. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8640.2010.00372.x.
-  Chiu, C., W. Y., and Man, D. W. K. (2004). The effect of training older adults with stroke to use homebased assistive devices. OTJR: Occupation, Participation and Health, 24(3), 113–120.
-  Christensen, K., Doblhammer, G., Rau, R., and Vaupel, J. W. (2009). Ageing populations: The challenges ahead. Lancet, 374(9696), 1196–1208. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61460-4.
-  method of treatment. NeuroRehabilitation, 12(1), 39–51. Retrieved from
-  Colombo, M. (2004). Assistive technology: Mind the user! Gerontechnology, 3(1), 1–4. doi:10.4017/ gt.2004.03.01.001.00.
-  Corey-Bloom, J. (2004). Alzheimer’s disease. Continuum, 10(1), 29–57.


=== Page 123 ===

-  Czaja, S. J., Charness, N., Fisk, A. D., Hertzog, C., Nair, S. N., Rogers, W. A., et al. (2006). Factors predicting the use of technology: Findings from the Center for Research and Education on Aging and Technology Enhancement (CREATE). Psychology and Aging, 21(2), 333–352. doi:10.1037/0882-7974.21.2.333.
-  Davis, F. D. (1993). User acceptance of information technology: System characteristics, user perceptions and behavioral impacts. International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, 38(3), 475–487. doi:10.1006/imms.1993.1022.
-  de Groot, V., Beckerman, H., Lankhorst, G. J., and Bouter, L. M. (2003). How to measure comorbidity. A critical review of available methods. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 56(3), 221–229. doi:10.1016/S0895-4356(02)00585-1.
-  DeVaul, R. W. (2004). The Memory Glasses: Wearable Computing for Just-In-Time Memory Support. Doctoral Dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA. Retrieved from http://devaul.net/~rich/DeVaulDissertation.pdf.
-  Driessen, B., Evers, H., and van Woerden, J. (2001). MANUS—A wheelchair-mounted rehabilitation robot. Proceedings of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Part H: Journal of Engineering in Medicine, 215(3), 285–290. doi:10.1243/0954411011535876.
-  Elliot, R. (1991). Assistive Technology for the Frail Elderly: An Introduction and Overview. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
-  Feigin, V. L., Lawes, C. M., Bennett, D. A., and Anderson, C. S. (2003). Stroke epidemiology: A review of population-based studies of incidence, prevalence, and case-fatality in the late 20th century. Lancet Neurology, 2(1), 43–53. doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(03)00266-7.
-  Feinstein, A. R. (1970). The pre-therapeutic classification of co-morbidity in chronic disease. Journal of Chronic Diseases, 23(7), 455–468. doi:10.1016/0021-9681(70)90054-8.
-  Freedman, V. A. (2009). Adopting the ICF language for studying late-life disability: A field of dreams? Journals of Gerontology. Series A, Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 64(11), 1172–1174; discussion 1175–1176. doi:10.1093/gerona/glp095.


=== Page 124 ===

-  Recent trends in disability and functioning among older adults in the United States: A systematic review. Journal of the American Medical Association, 288(24), 3137–3146. doi:10.1001/jama.288.24.3137.
-  Fried, L. P. (1994). Frailty. In W. R. Hazzard, J. G. Ouslander, J. Blass, J. B. Halter and M. E. Tinetti (Eds.), Principles of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology (3rd ed., pp. 1149–1155). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Fried, L. P. (2000). Epidemiology of aging. Epidemiologic Reviews, 22(1), 95–106.
-  Fried, L. P., Ferrucci, L., Darer, J., Williamson, J. D., and Anderson, G. (2004). Untangling the concepts of disability, frailty, and comorbidity: Implications for improved targeting and care. Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 59(3), M255-M263. doi:10.1093/ gerona/59.3.M255.
-  Fried, L. P., and Guralnik, J. M. (1997). Disability in older adults: Evidence regarding significance, etiology, and risk. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 45(1), 92.
-  Fried, L. P., Tangen, C. M., Walston, J. D., Newman, A. B., Hirsch, C., Gottdiener, J., et al. (2001). Frailty in older adults: Evidence for a phenotype. Journals of Gerontology, 56A(3), M146-M156.
-  Fried, L. P., Walston, J. D., and Ferrucci, L. (2009). Frailty. In J. B. Halter, J. G. Ouslander, M. E. Tinetti, S. Studenski, K. P. High and S. Asthana (Eds.), Hazzard’s Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology (6th ed., pp. 631–646). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Fries, J. F. (1980). Aging, natural death, and the compression of morbidity. New England Journal of Medicine, 303(3), 130–135. doi:10.1056/NEJM198007173030304.
-  Geriatric Medicine Section of UEMS. (2008). Geriatric Medicine. Retrieved from http://www.uemsgeriatric medicine.org
-  Gijsen, R., Hoeymans, N., Schellevis, F. G., Ruwaard, D., Satariano, W. A., and van den Bos, G. A. M. (2001). Causes and consequences of comorbidity: A review. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 54(7), 661–674. doi:10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00363-2.


=== Page 125 ===

-  Gill, T. M., Gahbauer, E. A., Han, L., and Allore, H. G. (2010). Trajectories of disability in the last year of life. New England Journal of Medicine, 362(13), 1173–1180. doi:10.1056/NEJMoa0909087.
-  Gitlin, L. N. (1995). Why older people accept or reject assistive technology. Generations, 19(1), 41–46.
-  Gorman, P., Dayle, R., Hood, C.-A., and Rumrell, L. (2003). Effectiveness of the ISAAC cognitive prosthetic system for improving rehabilitation outcomes with neurofunctional impairment. NeuroRehabilitation, 18(1), 57–67. Retrieved from http://iospress.metapress.com/content/ qb93q7w4qfh3r47y/
-  Graf, B., Hans, M., and Schraft, R. D. (2004). Care-O-Bot II—Development of a next generation robotic home assistant. Autonomous Robots, 16(2), 193–205. doi:10.1023/ B:AURO.0000016865.35796.e9.
-  Grill, E., and Stucki, G. (2011). Criteria for validating comprehensive ICF Core Sets and developing brief ICF Core Set versions. Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, 43(2), 87–91. doi:10.2340/ 16501977-0616.
-  Guralnik, J. M. (1996). Assessing the impact of comorbidity in the older population. Annals of Epidemiology, 6(5), 376–380. doi:10.1016/S1047-2797(96)00060-9.
-  Guralnik, J. M., and Ferrucci, L. (2009). The challenge of understanding the disablement process in older persons: Commentary responding to Jette AM. Toward a common language of disablement. The Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 64A(11), 1169–1171. doi:10.1093/gerona/glp094.
-  Harman, D. (2001). Aging: Overview. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 286(928), 1–21. doi:10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb05631.x.
-  Hazzard, W. R. (2004). I am a geriatrician. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 52(1), 161. doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2004.52041.x.
-  K. D., and Tejada-Vera, B. (2009). Deaths: Final data for 2006. National Vital Statistic Report, 57(14), 1–134.
-  Hok Kwee, H. (1998). Integrated control of MANUS manipulator and wheelchair enhanced by environmental


=== Page 126 ===

-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2007). ISO 9999:2007 Assistive Products for Persons with Disability—Classification and Terminology. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  InTouch Health. (2004). Advanced technology solutions for healthcare service providers Retrieved from http://www.intouch-health.com/index.html.
-  Iwarsson, S., and Slaug, B. (2001). The Housing Enabler: An Instrument for Assessing and Analysing Accessibility Problems in Housing. Staffanstorp, Sweden: Veten & Skapen & Slaug Data Management.
-  Jagger, C. (2000). Compression or expansion of morbidity: What does the future hold? Age and Ageing, 29(2), 93–94. doi:10.1093/ageing/29.2.93.
-  disability, and health. Physical Therapy, 86(5), 726–734. Retrieved from
-  disablement. Journals of Gerontology Series A: Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 64(11), 1165–1168. doi:10.1093/gerona/glp093.
-  Karmarkar, A., Chavez, E., and Cooper, R. A. (2008). Technology for successful aging and disabilities. In A. Helal, M. Mokhtari and B. Abdulrazak (Eds.), The Engineering Handbook of Smart Technology for Aging, Disability, and Independence (pp. 27–48). Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., doi:10.1002/9780470379424.ch1.
-  International Population Report. Retrieved from http://www.census.gov/prod/2009pubs/p95-09-1.pdf.
-  Kramer, M. (1980). The rising pandemic of mental disorders and associated chronic diseases and disabilities. Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica, 62(S285), 382–397. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0447.1980. tb07714.x.
-  Krebs, H., Ferraro, M., Buerger, S., Newbery, M., Makiyama, A., Sandmann, M., et al. (2004). Rehabilitation robotics: Pilot trial of a spatial extension for MIT-Manus. Journal


=== Page 127 ===

-  of NeuroEngineering and Rehabilitation, 1(1), 5. doi:10.1186/1743-0003-1-5.
-  Lacey, G., and Dawson-Howe, K. M. (1998). The application of robotics to a mobility aid for the elderly blind. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 23(4), 245–252. doi:10.1016/s0921-8890(98)00011-6.
-  Landi, F., Liperoti, R., Russo, A., Capoluongo, E., Barillaro, C., Pahor, M., et al. (2010). Disability, more than multimorbidity, was predictive of mortality among older persons aged 80 years and older. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 63(7), 752–759. doi:10.1016/j.jclinepi.2009.09.007.
-  Lauriks, S., Reinersmann, A., Van der Roest, H. G., Meiland, F. J., Davies, R. J., Moelaert, F., et al. (2007). Review of ICT-based services for identified unmet needs in people with dementia. Ageing Research Reviews, 6(3), 223–246. doi:10.1016/j.arr.2007.07.002.
-  Levinson, R. (1997). The Planning and Execution Assistant and Trainer (PEAT). Journal of Head Trauma Rehabilitation, 12(2), 85–91. doi:10.1097/00001199-199704000-00010.
-  Lezak, M. D., Howieson, D. B., Loring, D. W., Hannay, H. J., and Fischer, J. S. (2004). Neuropsychological assessment (4th ed.). New York: Oxford University Press.
-  mortality in the elderly population. Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly. Health and Society, 60(2), 183–244. doi:10.2307/3349767.
-  Marengoni, A., Angleman, S., Melis, R., Mangialasche, F., Karp, A., Garmen, A., et al. (2011). Aging with multimorbidity: A systematic review of the literature. Ageing Research Reviews. doi:10.1016/j.arr.2011.03.003.
-  Marengoni, A., Rizzuto, D., Wang, H. X., Winblad, B., and Fratiglioni, L. (2009). Patterns of chronic multimorbidity in the elderly population. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 57(2), 225–230. doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.02109.x.
-  McCreadie, C., and Tinker, A. (2005). The acceptability of assistive technology to older people. Ageing and Society, 25(1), 91–110. doi:10.1017/S0144686X0400248X.
-  McGarry Logue, R. (2002). Self-medication and the elderly:


=== Page 128 ===

-  How technology can help. American Journal of Nursing, 102(7), 51–55.
-  Mecocci, P., von Strauss, E., Cherubini, A., Ercolani, S., Mariani, E., Senin, U., et al. (2005). Cognitive impairment is the major risk factor for development of geriatric syndromes during hospitalization: Results from the GIFA study. Dementia and Geriatric Cognitive Disorders, 20(4), 262–269. doi:10.1159/000087440.
-  Mihailidis, A., Barbenel, J. C., and Fernie, G. (2004). The efficacy of an intelligent cognitive orthosis to facilitate handwashing by persons with moderate to severe dementia. Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, 14(1–2), 135–171. doi:10.1080/09602010343000156.
-  Mihailidis, A., Boger, J., Craig, T., and Hoey, J. (2008). The COACH prompting system to assist older adults with dementia through handwashing: An efficacy study. BMC Geriatrics, 8(1), 28. doi:10.1186/1471-2318-8-28.
-  Morley, J. E. (2004). A brief history of geriatrics. Journals of Gerontology. Series A, Biological Sciences and Medical Sciences, 59(11), 1132–1152. doi:10.1093/gerona/59.11.1132.
-  Mosqueda, L. A. (1993). Assessment of rehabilitation potential. Clinics in Geriatric Medicine, 9(4), 689–703.
-  Schmader, K. (2001). Reducing medication regimen complexity: A controlled trial. Journal of General Internal Medicine, 16(2), 77–82. doi:10.1046/j.1525-1497.2001.016002077.x.
-  Nagi, S. Z. (1964). A study in the evaluation of disability and rehabilitation potential: Concepts, methods, and procedures. American Journal of Public Health and the Nation’s Health, 54(9), 1568–1579. doi:10.2105/ajph.54.9.1568.
-  Nagi, S. Z. (1965). Some conceptual issues in disability and rehabilitation. In M. B. Sussman (Ed.), Sociology and Rehabilitation (pp. 100–113). Washington, DC: American Sociological Association.
-  Nagi, S. Z. (1991). Disability concepts revisited: Implications for prevention. In A. M. Pope and A. R. Tarlov (Eds.), Disability in America: Toward a National Agenda for Prevention (pp. 309–327). Washington, DC:


=== Page 129 ===

-  Nakayama, H., Jorgensen, H. S., Raaschou, H. O., and Olsen, T. S. (1994). The influence of age on stroke outcome. The Copenhagen Stroke Study. Stroke, 25(4), 808–813. doi:10.1161/01.STR.25.4.808.
-  NIH Consensus Development Program. (1987). Geriatric Assessment Methods for Clinical Decision Making. NIH Consens Statement. (6/13). Retrieved from http://consensus.nih.gov/1987/1987 GeriatricAssessment065html.htm.
-  Parnes, R. B. (2010). GPS Technology and Alzheimer’s Disease: Novel Use for an Existing Technology. Retrieved from http://www.thirdage.com/
-  (2001). Medical comorbidity and rehabilitation efficiency in geriatric inpatients. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 49(11), 1471–1477. doi:10.1046/j.1532-5415.2001.4911239.x.
-  Philipose, M., Fishkin, K. P., Perkowitz, M., Patterson, D. J., Fox, D., Kautz, H., et al. (2004). Inferring activities from interactions with objects. Pervasive Computing, IEEE, 3(4), 50–57. doi:10.1109/ MPRV.2004.7.
-  Pollack, M. E., Brown, L., Colbry, D., McCarthy, C. E., Orosz, C., Peintner, B., et al. (2003). Autominder: An intelligent cognitive orthotic system for people with memory impairment. Robotics and Autonomous Systems, 44(3–4), 273–282. doi:10.1016/S0921-8890(03)00077-0.
-  Qiu, C., De Ronchi, D., and Fratiglioni, L. (2007). The epidemiology of the dementias: An update. Current Opinion in Psychiatry, 20(4), 380–385. doi:10.1097/YCO.0b013e32816ebc7b.
-  Rejeski, W. J., Ip, E. H., Marsh, A. P., Miller, M. E., and Farmer, D. F. (2008). Measuring disability in older adults: The International Classification System of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) framework. Geriatrics and Gerontology International, 8(1), 48–54. doi:10.1111/j.1447-0594.2008.00446.x.
-  Reuben, D. B., and Rosen, S. (2009). Principles of geriatric assessment. In J. B. Halter, J. G. Ouslander, M. E. Tinetti, S. Studenski, K. P. High and S. Asthana (Eds.), Hazzard’s Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology (6th ed., pp.


=== Page 130 ===

-  Reuben, D. B., Shekelle, P. G., and Wenger, N. S. (2003). Quality of care for older persons at the dawn of the third millennium. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 51(Suppl 7), S346–S350. doi:10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.51346.x.
-  Rockwood, K., Hogan, D. B., and MacKnight, C. (2000). Conceptualisation and measurement of frailty in elderly people. Drugs and Aging, 17(4), 295–302. doi:10.2165/00002512-200017040-00005.
-  Rockwood, K., Stadnyk, K., MacKnight, C., McDowell, I., Hebert, R., and Hogan, D. B. (1999). A brief clinical instrument to classify frailty in elderly people. Lancet, 353(9148), 205–206. doi:10.1016/ S0140-6736(98)04402-X.
-  Rubenstein, L. Z. (1995). An overview of comprehensive geriatric assessment: Rationale, history, programs models, basic components. In L. Z. Rubenstein, D. Wieland and R. Bernabei (Eds.), Geriatric Assessment Technology: The State of the Art (pp. 1–9). New York: Oxford University Press.
-  Ruchinskas, R. A., and Curyto, K. J. (2003). Cognitive screening in geriatric rehabilitation. Rehabilitation Psychology, 48(1), 14–22. doi:10.1037/0090-5550.48.1.14.
-  Scherer, M. J. (Ed.). (1998). Matching Person & Technology. A Series of Assessments for Evaluating Predispositions to and Outcomes of Technology Use in Rehabilitation, Education, the Workplace & Other Settings. Webster, NY: The Institute for Matching Person & Technology, Inc.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2002). Introduction. In M. J. Scherer (Ed.), Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation (pp. 3–13). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2005). Cross-Walking the ICF to a Measure of Assistive Technology Predisposition and Use. Paper presented at the 11th World Health Organization (WHO) North American Collaborating Centre (NACC) Conference on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), Rochester, MN.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. (2002). Matching Person & Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology & Disability, 3(14), 125–131. Retrieved from


=== Page 131 ===

-  http: //iospress.metapress.com/ content/géeft4mnlwly8ys8e.
-  Scherer, M. J., Federici, S., Tiberio, L., Pigliautile, M., Corradi, F., and Meloni, F. (2011). ICF Core set for Matching Older Adults with Dementia and Technology. Ageing International, 36. doi:10.1007/ s12126-010-9093-9.
-  Searle, S. D., Mitnitski, A., Gahbauer, E. A., Gill, T. M., and Rockwood, K. (2008). A standard procedure for creating a frailty index. BMC Geriatrics, 8(24), 1–10. doi:10.1186/1471-2318-8-24
-  Slangen-de Kort, Y. A. W., Midden, C. J. H., and van Wagenberg, A. F. (1998). Predictors of the adaptive problem-solving of older persons in their homes. Journal of Environmental Psychology, 18(2), 187–197. doi:10.1006/jevp.1998.0083.
-  Song, X., Mitnitski, A., and Rockwood, K. (2010). Prevalence and 10-year outcomes of frailty in older adults in relation to deficit accumulation. Journal of American Geriatrics Society, 58(4), 681–687. doi:10.1111/j.1532-5415.2010.02764.x.
-  Stier-Jarmer, M., Grill, E., Muller, M., Strobl, R., Quittan, M., and Stucki, G. (2011). Validation of the comprehensive ICF Core Set for patients in geriatric post-acute rehabilitation facilities. Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, 43(2), 102–112. doi:10.2340/16501977-0617.
-  Straus, S. E., and Tinetti, M. E. (2009). Evaluation, management, and decision making with the older patient. In J. B. Halter, J. G. Ouslander, M. E. Tinetti, S. Studenski, K. P. High and S. Asthana (Eds.), Hazzard’s Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology (6th ed., pp. 133–140). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Stucki, G., Ewert, T., and Cieza, A. (2002). Value and application of the ICF in rehabilitation medicine. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(17), 932–938. doi:10.1080/09638280210148594.
-  Stucki, G., Üstün, T. B., and Melvin, J. (2005). Applying the ICF for the acute hospital and early post-acute rehabilitation facilities. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(7/8), 349–352. doi:10.1080/09638280400013941.
-  Tas, U., Verhagen, A. P., Bierma-Zeinstra, S. M., Hofman, A., Odding, E., Pols, H. A., et al. (2007). Incidence and


=== Page 132 ===

-  risk factors of disability in the elderly: The Rotterdam Study. Preventive Medicine, 44(3), 272–278. doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2006.11.007.
-  Toseland, R. W., O’Donnell, J. C., Engelhardt, J. B., Hendler, S. A., Richie, J. T., and Jue, D. (1996). Outpatient geriatric evaluation and management. Results of a randomized trial. Medical Care, 34(6), 624–640. doi:10.1097/00005650-199606000-00011.
-  Tsukuda, R. A. (1990). Interdisciplinary collaboration: Teamwork in geriatrics. In C. K. Cassel, D. E. Riesenberg, L. B. Sorensen and J. R. Walsh (Eds.), Geriatric Medicine (2nd ed., pp. 668–675). New York: Springer-Verlag.
-  van Breemen, A., Yan, X., and Meerbeek, B. (2005, Jul 25–29). iCat: An Animated User-Interface Robot with Personality. Paper presented at the 4th International Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems: AAMAS ’05, Utrecht, The Netherlands. doi:10.1145/1082473.1082823.
-  Verbrugge, L. M., and Jette, A. M. (1994). The disablement process. Social Science and Medicine, 38(1), 1–14. doi:10.1016/0277-9536(94)90294-1.
-  Wade, D. T. (1992). Stroke: Rehabilitation and long-term care. The Lancet, 339(8796), 791–793. doi:10.1016/0140-6736(92)91906-o.
-  Wade, D. T. (1999). Rehabilitation therapy after stroke. Lancet, 354(9174), 176–177. doi:10.1016/ S0140-6736(99)90064-8.
-  Wells, J. L., Seabrook, J. A., Stolee, P., Borrie, M. J., and Knoefel, F. (2003a). State of the art in geriatric rehabilitation. Part I: Review of frailty and comprehensive geriatric. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 84(6), 890–897. doi:10.1016/S0003-9993(02)04929-8.
-  Wells, J. L., Seabrook, J. A., Stolee, P., Borrie, M. J., and Knoefel, F. (2003b). State of the art in geriatric rehabilitation. Part II: clinical challenges. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 84(6), 898–903. doi:10.1016/S0003-9993(02)04930-4.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (1980). ICIDH: International Classification of Impairments, Disabilities, and Handicaps. A Manual Of Classification Relating to the


=== Page 133 ===

-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Yu, H., Spenko, M., and Dubowsky, S. (2003). An adaptive shared control system for an intelligent mobility aid for the elderly. Autonomous Robots, 15(1), 53–66. doi:10.1023/a:1024488717009. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 134 ===

-  14 14. Role of Speech&#8211;Language Pathologists in Assitive Technology Assessments
-  AAC Institute. (2001). Performance Report Tool (PeRT) [computer software]. Pittsburgh, PA: AAC Institute.
-  AAC Institute. (2009). KeyLAM [computer software]. Pittsburgh, PA: AAC Institute.
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2001). Roles and Responsibilities of Speech– Language Pathologists with Respect to Reading and Writing in Children and Adolescents [Guidelines]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2002a). Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Knowledge and Skills for Service Delivery [Knowledge and Skills]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2002b). Knowledge and Skills Needed by Speech–Language Pathologists with Respect to Reading and Writing in Children and Adolescents [Knowledge and Skills]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2004a). Preferred Practice Patterns for the Profession of Speech–Language Pathology [Preferred Practice Patterns]. Retrieved from http:// www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2004b). Roles and Responsibilities of Speech–Language Pathologists with Respect to Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Technical Report [Technical Report]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2007). Scope of Practice in Speech–Language Pathology [Scope of Practice]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Speech–Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). (2010). Code of Ethics [Ethics]. Retrieved from http://www.asha.org/policy
-  American Psychiatric Association (APA). (2000). Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-IV-TR. Arlington, VA: APA.


=== Page 135 ===

-  Beukelman, D., and Mirenda, P. (2005). Augmentative and Alternative Communication: Management of Severe Communication Disorders in Children and Adults (3rd ed.). Baltimore: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co.
-  Bodine, C., and Melonis, M. (2005). Teaming and assistive technology in educational settings. In D. Edyburn, K. Higgins, and R. Boone, (Eds.), Handbook of Special Education (pp. 209–227). Whitefish Bay, WI: Knowledge by Design, Inc.
-  Coltheart, M. (1987). Attention and Performance XII: The Psychology of Reading. London: Psychology Press.
-  Cook, A. M., and Hussey, S. M. (2002). Assistive Technologies: Principles and Practice (2nd ed.). St. Louis, MO: Mosby.
-  Cooper, R. A. (2007). Introduction. In R. R. Cooper, H. Ohnabe, and D. A. Hobson, (Eds.), An Introduction to Rehabilitation Engineering (pp. 1–18). New York: Taylor & Francis Group.
-  Cooper, R. A., Roberts, B. R., Hill, K., Karg, P. Karmarkar, A., Lane, A. K., et al. (2009). Seating, assistive technology, and equipment. In J. Stein, R. L. Harvey, R. F. Macko, C. J. Winstein, and R. D. Zorowitz, (Eds.), Stroke Recovery and Rehabilitation (pp. 543–568). New York: Demos Medical Publishing.
-  Cooper, R. A., Ohnabe, H., and Hobson, A. D. (2007). An Introduction to Rehabilitation Engineering. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.
-  Creech, R. (1995). Outcomes: Choosing our directions—Our freedom is the field’s reason for being. In Proceedings of the Third Annual Pittsburgh Employment Conference. Pittsburgh, PA: SHOUT Press, 3, pp. 9–12.
-  Daniel, S. S., Walsh, A. K., Goldston, D. B., Arnold, E. M., Reboussin, B. A., and Wood, F. B. (2006). Suicide, school dropout, and reading problems among adolescents. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 39(6), 507–514. doi:10.1177/00222194060390060301
-  Dollaghan, C. A. (2007). The Handbook for Evidence-Based Practice in Communication Disorders. Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co.


=== Page 136 ===

-  Dollaghan, C. A., Campbell T. F., and Tomlin, R. (1990). Video narration as a language sampling context. Journal of Speech and Hearing Disorders, 55, 582–590.
-  Duchan, J. (1991). Everyday events: Their role in language assessment and intervention. In T. Gallaher, (Ed.), Pragmatics of Language: Clinical Practice Issues (pp. 43–98). San Diego: Singular.
-  Esgate, A., Groome, D., and Baker, K. (2005). An Introduction to Applied Cognitive Psychology. London: Psychology Press.
-  Fodor, J. A. (1983). The Modularity of Mind. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-  Gibbs, L. B. (2003). Evidence-Based Practice for Helping Professions: A Practical Guide with Integrated Multimedia. Pacific Grove, CA: Thompson Brookes/Cole.
-  Haines, L., and Robertson, G. (2005). Teamwork needs technology. In D. Edybum, K. Higgins, and R. Boone, (Eds.), Handbook of Special Education Technology Research and Practice (pp. 455–480). Whitefish Bay, WI: Knowledge by Design.
-  Hill, K. (2001). The Development of a Model for Automated Performance Measurement and the Establishment of Performance Indices for Augmented Communicators under Two Sampling Conditions. Dissertation Abstracts International, 62(05), 2293 (UMI No. 3103368).
-  Hill, K. (2004). AAC evidence-based practice and language activity monitoring. Topics in Language Disorders: Language and Augmented Communication, 24, 18–30.
-  Hill, K. (2006). A case study model for augmentative and alternative communication. Assistive Technology Outcomes and Benefits, 3(1).
-  Hill, K. (2009). Data collection and monitoring AAC intervention in the schools. ASHA Perspectives on Augmentative and Alternative Communication 18, 58–64. doi:10.1044/aac18.2.58
-  Hill, K. J., Baker, B., and Romich, B.A. (2007). Augmentative and alternative communication technology. In R. A. Cooper, H. Ohnabe, and D. A. Hobson, (Eds.), An Introduction to Rehabilitation Engineering (pp. 355–384). Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis.


=== Page 137 ===

-  Hill, K., Dollaghan, C., and Nyberg, E. (2000). AAC Language Sample Library for Intervention, Outcomes Measurement, and Research. Presented at the Annual American Speech–Language-Hearing (ASHA) Annual Convention. Washington DC. November 16–19.
-  Hill, K., Glennen, S., and Lytton, R. (1998). The Role of Manufacturers’ Consultants in Delivering AAC Services. In Proceedings of the 8th ISAAC Biennial Conference. Dublin, Ireland.
-  Hill, K., and Romich, B. (2001). A language activity monitor for supporting AAC evidence-based clinical practice. Assistive Technology, 13, 12–22.
-  Hill, K. and Romich, B. (2003). AAC Evidence-Based Clinical Practice: A Model for Success. Pittsburgh, PA: AAC Institute Press.
-  Hill, K., and Romich, B. (2007). AAC Evidence-Based Practice: Four Steps to Optimized Communication. Pittsburgh, PA: AAC Institute Press.
-  Hill, K., Romich, B. and Hurd, R. (2007). Family and Consumer Perceptions of AAC Evidence-Based Practice. Poster at the 8th Annual Conference of the ASHA Division on AAC. Atlanta, GA.
-  Hill, K., and Scherer, M. (2008). Matching Persons & Technology: Data-Driven AAC Assessment. Proceedings of the Twenty-Third Annual Conference “Technology and Persons with Disabilities,” California State University, Northridge, CA.
-  HMSO. (1995). Disability Discrimination Act. Retrieved from http://www.legislation.hmso.gov.uk/
-  Huer, M. D., and Hill, K. (2007). AAC and the Rights and dignity of Persons with Disabilities. Workshop at the 2007 RESNA Annual Conference. Phoenix, AZ. June 15–19.
-  Huer, M., Hill, K., and Loncke, F. (2006). International Policy Trends and AAC. In Proceedings of the ISAAC Biennial 2006 Conference. Dusseldorf, Germany. July 29–August 5, 2006.
-  Hunt, P., Soto, G., Maier, J., Liboiron, N., and Bae, S. (2004). Collaborative teaming to support preschoolers with severe disabilities who are placed in general education


=== Page 138 ===

-  early childhood programs. Topics in Early Childhood Special Education, 24(3), 123–142.
-  Kangas, K., and Lloyd, L. (1988). Early cognitive skills as prerequisites to augmentative and alternative communication use: What are we waiting for? Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 4, 211–221.
-  Karmiloff-Smith, A. (1992). Beyond Modularity: A Developmental Perspective on Cognitive Science. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-  Koester, H. H., LoPresti, E., Ashlock, G., McMillan, W., Moore, P., and Simpson, R. (2003). Compass: Software for Computer Skills Assessment. In Proceedings of CSUN 2003 International Conference on Technology and Persons with Disabilities, Los Angeles, CA. March 2003.
-  Koester Performance Research. (2007). COMPASS [computer software]. Ann Arbor, MI: Koester Performance Research.
-  Kovach, T. M. (2009). Augmentative and Alternative Communication Profile: A Continuum of Learning. East Moline, IL: LinguiSystems.
-  Lagae, L. (2008). Learning disabilities: definitions, epidemiology, diagnosis, and intervention strategies. Pediatric Clinics of North America, 55(6), 1259–1268. doi:10.1016/j.pcl.2008.08.001
-  Law, M. L., and MacDermid, J. (2008). Evidence-Based Rehabilitation. Thorofare, NJ: SLACK Inc.
-  Lieber, J., Beckman, P. J., Hanson, M. J., Janko, S., Marquart, J. M., Horn, E., et al. (1997). The impact of changing roles on the relationships between professionals in inclusive programs for young children. Early Education and Development, 8, 67–82.
-  Light, J. (1989). Toward a definition of communicative competence for individuals using augmentative and alternative communication systems. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 5, 137–144.
-  Competence with Individuals Who Use Augmentative and Alternative Communication. Baltimore, MD: Paul H. Brookes Publishing Co.


=== Page 139 ===

-  C., and Petersen, A. (1996). On the bases of two subtypes of development dyslexia. Cognition, 58(2), 157–195. doi:10.1016/0010-0277(95)00679-6.
-  McKibbon, K.A., Wilczynski, N., Hayward, R.S., Walker-Dilks, C., and Haynes, R.B. (1995). The Medical Literature As a Resource for Evidence Based Care. Working Paper from the Health Information Research Unit, McMaster University, Ontario, Canada.
-  McNeil, M. R., Doyle, P. J., Park, G. H., Fossett, T. R. D., Brodsky, M. B. (2002). Increasing the sensitivity of the Story Retell Procedure for the discrimination of normal elderly subjects from persons with aphasia. Aphasiology, 16(8), 815–822.
-  bidirectional relationship between children’s reading skills and reading motivation? Exceptional Children, 73(2), 165–183.
-  Moscovitch, M., and Umiltà, C. (1990). Modularity and neuropsychology: Modules and central processes in attention and memory. In M. F. Schwartz, (Ed.), Modular Deficits in Alzheimer-Type Dementia (pp. 1–59). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-  National Joint Committee for the Communicative Needs of Persons with Severe Disabilities (NJC). (2002). Access to communication services and supports: Concerns regarding the application of restrictive “eligibility.” Communication Disorders Quarterly, 23(2), 145–153.
-  Ninni, K. M., Brownstein, L. (1999). Patient outcome as a selection criterion in determining treatment mode. Perfusion, 14(3), 213–218.
-  Pain, K., Dunn, M., Anderson, G., Darrah, J., and Kratochvil, M. (1998). Quality of life: What does it mean in rehabilitation? Journal of Rehabilitation, 64(2), 5–11.
-  development for children using AAC. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 13, 141–148.
-  Paul, R. (2007). Language Disorders from Infancy through Adolescence (3rd ed.). St. Louis, MO: Mosby Elsevier.
-  Prasher, V. P., and Kapadia, H. M. (2006). Epidemiology of learning disability and comorbid conditions. Psychiatry,


=== Page 140 ===

-  Repubblica Italiana. (2010). Legge 170/10: Nuove norme in materia di disturbi specifici di apprendimento in ambito scolastico (10G0192). Gazzetta Ufficiale della Repubblica Italiana—Serie Generale, 244, 1–3.
-  Romich, B., and Hill, K. (1999). A language activity monitor for AAC and writing systems: Clinical intervention, outcomes measurements, and research. In Proceedings for the RESNA ‘99 Annual Conference. Long Beach, CA. pp 19–21.
-  Romich, B., Hill, K., Seagull, A., Ahmad, N., Strecker, J., and Gotla, K. (2003). AAC Performance Report Tool. In Proceedings of the RESNA 2001 Annual Conference [CD-ROM]. Atlanta, GA: RESNA Press.
-  Romich, B., Vanderheiden, G., and Hill, K. (2005). Augmentative communication. In J. D. Bronzino, (Ed.), The Biomedical Engineering Handbook, (3rd ed). Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.
-  Rourke, B. P., and Fuerst, D. R. (1991). Learning Disabilities and Psychosocial Functioning: A Neuropsychological Perspective. New York: Guilford Press.
-  Sackett, D. L, Strauss, S. E., Richardson, W. S., Rosenberg, W., and Haynes, R. B. (2000). Evidencebased medicine: How to practice and teach EBM. Edinburgh, Scotland: Churchill Livingstone.
-  and Richardson, W. S. (1996). Evidencebased medicine: What it is and what it isn’t. British Medical Journal, 321, 71–72.
-  Scherer, M. J. (Ed.). (2002). Assistive Technology: Matching Device and Consumer for Successful Rehabilitation. Washington, DC: APA Books.
-  Scherer, M. J. (2004). The Matching Person and Technology Model. In Scherer, M.J. (Ed.), Connecting to Learn: Educational and Assistive Technology for People with Disabilities (pp. 183–201). Washington, DC: APA.
-  Scherer, M. J., and Craddock, G. M. (2002). Matching Person and Technology (MPT) assessment process. Technology & Disability, 3(14), 125–131.


=== Page 141 ===

-  Segalowitz, S. J., and Rapin, I. (2002). Handbook of Neuropsychology: Child Neuropsychology (Vol. 8 Pt. 1). Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Health Sciences.
-  Shadden, B. B., Burnette, R. B., Eikenberry, B. R., and DiBrezzo, R. (1991). All discourse tasks are not created equal. Clinical Aphasiology, 20, 327–341.
-  Shallice, T. (1988). From Neuropsychology to Mental Structure. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
-  Swengel, K., and Marquette, J. (1997). Service delivery in AAC. In S. L. Glennon, and D. Decoste, (Eds.), Handbook of Augmentative and Alternative Communication (pp. 21–57). San Diego: Singular Publishing Group.
-  Ukrainetz, T. A., and Fresquez, E. F. (2003). “What isn’t language?” A qualitative study of the role of the school Speech–Language pathologist. Language, Speech, and Hearing Services in Schools, 34, 284–298.
-  U.S. Government (US). (2004). Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Public Law 108–446, December 3, 2004.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (1992). ICD-10: International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Revision (Vol. 1–3). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zabel, R. H., and Nigro, F. A. (1999). Juvenile offenders with behavioral disorders, learning disabilities, and no disabilities: Self-reports of personal, family, and school characteristics. Behavioral Disorders, 25(1), 22–40.
-  Zorzi, M. (2005). Computational models of reading. In G. Houghton, (Ed.), Connectionist Models in Cognitive Psychology (pp. 403–444). London: Psychology Press. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 142 ===
Section III: Assistive Technology Devices and Services
-  Akoumianakis, D., and Stephanidis, C. (2001). Universal Design in HCI: A Critical Review of Current Research and Practice. Paper presented at the ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Universal Design: Towards Universal Access in the Information Society: CHI 2001, Seattle, WA. Retrieved from http://www.ics.forth.gr/hci/files/ch12001/akoumianakis.pdf
-  Berners-Lee, T., and Fischetti, M. (1999). Weaving the Web: The Original Design and Ultimate Destiny of the World Wide Web by I st Inventor. London: Orion Business.
-  Federici, S., and Borsci, S. (2010). Usability evaluation: Models, methods, and applications. In J. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation. Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from
-  Halverson, L., and Belknap, K. A. (1996). Informed Consumer’s Guide to Assistive Technology for People with Spinal Cord Injuries. Retrieved from http://www.abledata.com/abledata_docs/icg-spin. htm
-  Haynes, B. (1999). Can it work? Does it work? Is it worth it? British Medical Journal, 319(7211), 652–653
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (1998). ISO 9241–11: Ergonomic Requirements for Office Work with Visual Display Terminals. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2008). ISO 9241–171: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction—Part 171: Guidance on Software Accessibility. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  Kramer, G., Walker, B., Bonebright, T., Cook, P., Flowers, J., Miner, N., et al. (1997). Sonification Report: Status of the Field and Research Agenda. Retrieved from
-  Marley, J. E. (2000). Efficacy, effectiveness, efficiency. Australian Prescriber, 23(6), 114–115.
-  Norman, D. A., and Draper, S. W. (1986). User-Centered System Design: New Perspectives on HumanComputer Interaction. London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.


=== Page 143 ===

-  Roulstone, A. (1998). Researching a disabling society: The case of employment and new technology. In T. Shakespeare (Ed.), The Disability Reader: Social Science Perspectives (pp. 110–128). London: Cassell.
-  Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI). (2006). Introduction to Web Accessibility. Retrieved from http:// www.w3.org/WAI/intro/accessibility.php
-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 144 ===

-  Amedi, A., Stern, W. M., Camprodon, J. A., Bermpohl, F., Merabet, L., Rotman, S., et al. (2007). Shape conveyed by visual-to-auditory sensory substitution activates the lateral occipital complex. Nature Neuroscience, 10(6), 687–689. doi:10.1038/nn1912
-  Annett, J. (2002). Subjective rating scales in ergonomics: A reply. Ergonomics, 45(14), 1042–1046. doi:10.1080/00140130210166762
-  Avraamides, M. N., Loomis, J. M., Klatzky, R. L., and Golledge, R. G. (2004). Functional equivalence of spatial representations derived from vision and language: Evidence from allocentric judgments. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 30(4), 801–814. doi:10.1037/0278-7393.30.4.804
-  Barfield, W., Rosenberg, C., and Levasseur, G. (1991). The use of icons, earcons, and commands in the design of an online hierarchical menu. IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication, 34(2), 8. doi:10.1109/47.87619
-  Benjamin, J. M. J. (1973). The New C-5 Laser Cane for the Blind. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 1973 Carnahan Conference on Electronic Prosthetics, New York.
-  Benjamin, J. M. J. (1974). The laser cane. Bulletin of Prosthetics Research, 11(2), 443–450.
-  Bickenbach, J. E., Chatterji, S., Badley, E. M., and Üstün, T. B. (1999). Models of disablement, universalism and the international classification of impairments, disabilities and handicaps. Social Science and Medicine, 48(9), 1173–1187. doi:10.1016/S0277-9536(98)00441-9
-  Blattner, M. M., Sumikawa, D. A., and Greenberg, R. M. (1989). Earcons and icons: Their structure and common design principles. Human-Computer Interaction, 4(1), 11–44. doi:10.1207/ s15327051hci0401_1
-  Brewster, S. A. (1997). Using non-speech sound to overcome information overload. Displays, 17(3–4), 179–189. doi:10.1016/S0141-9382(96)01034-7
-  Brewster, S. A. (1998). Using nonspeech sounds to provide navigation cues. ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction (TOCHI), 5(3), 224–259. doi:10.1145/292834.292839


=== Page 145 ===

-  Brunetti, M., Belardinelli, P., Caulo, M., Del Gratta, C., Della Penna, S., Ferretti, A., et al. (2005). Human brain activation during passive listening to sounds from different locations: An fMRI and MEG study. Human Brain Mapping, 26(4), 251–261. doi:10.1002/hbm.20164
-  Brunetti, M., Della Penna, S., Ferretti, A., Del Gratta, C., Cianflone, F., Belardinelli, P., et al. (2008). A frontoparietal network for spatial attention reorienting in the auditory domain: A human fMRI/MEG study of functional and temporal dynamics. Cerebral Cortex, 18(5), 1139–1147. doi:10.1093/cercor/bhm145
-  Bryant, D. J. (1992). A spatial representation system in humans. Psycoloquy, 3(16). Retrieved from http://www.cogsci.ecs.soton.ac.uk/cgi/psyc/psummary?3.16
-  Bryant, D. J. (1997). Representing space in language and perception. Mind and Language, 12(3–4), 239–264. doi:10.1111/j.1468-0017.1997.tb00073.x
-  Craik, K. (1943). The Nature of Exploration. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
-  Decety, J., and Jackson, P. L. (2004). The functional architecture of human empathy. Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience Reviews, 3(2), 71–100. doi:10.1177/1534582304267187
-  Delogu, F., Palmiero, M., Federici, S., Zhao, H., Plaisant, C., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2010). Nonvisual exploration of geographic maps: Does sonification help? Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 5(3), 164–174. doi:10.3109/17483100903100277
-  Di Blas, N., Paolini, P., and Speroni, M. (2004). “Usable Accessibility” to the Web for blind Users. Paper presented at the 8th ERCIM Workshop: User Interfaces for All, Vienna, Austria. Retrieved from http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi = 10.1.1.110.8239. doi:10.1.1.110.8239
-  Di Giacomo, E., Didimo, W., Grilli, L., and Liotta, G. (2007). Graph visualization techniques for web clustering engines. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 13(2), 294–304. doi:10.1109/TVCG.2007.40
-  Farmer, L. W., and Smith, D. L. (1998). Adaptive technology. In B. B. Blasch, W. R. Wiener, and R. Welsh


=== Page 146 ===

-  (Eds.), Foundations of Orientation and Mobility (2nd ed., pp. 231–259). New York: American Foundation for the Blind Press.
-  Federici, S., and Borsci, S. (2010). Usability evaluation: Models, methods, and applications. In J. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation (pp. 1–17). Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/article.php?id = 277&language = en
-  Federici, S., Borsci, S., and Mele, M. L. (2010a). Usability evaluation with screen reader users: A video presentation of the PCTA’s experimental setting and rules. Cognitive Processing, 11(3), 285–288. doi:10.1007/s10339-010-0365-9
-  Federici, S., Borsci, S., Mele, M. L., and Stamerra, G. (2008). Global Rank: Tra popolarità e qualità dei siti Web. [Global Rank: Between popularity and quality of web sites]. Psicotech, 6(1), 7–23. doi:10.1400/113633
-  Federici, S., Borsci, S., Mele, M. L., and Stamerra, G. (2010b). Web popularity: An illusory perception of a qualitative order in information. Universal Access in the Information Society, 9(4), 375–386. doi:10.1007/s10209-009-0179-7
-  Federici, S., Borsci, S., and Stamerra, G. (2010c). Web usability evaluation with screen reader users: Implementation of the Partial Concurrent Thinking Aloud technique. Cognitive Processing, 11(3), 263–272. doi:10.1007/s10339-009-0347-y
-  Federici, S., Micangeli, A., Ruspantini, I., Borgianni, S., Corradi, F., Pasqualotto, E., et al. (2005). Checking an integrated model of web accessibility and usability evaluation for disabled people. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(13), 781–790. doi:10.1080/09638280400014766
-  Garrett, J. J. (2003). The Elements of User Experience: User-Centered Design for the Web. New York: New Riders Press.
-  Gaver, W. W. (1986). Auditory icons: Using sound in computer interfaces. Human-Computer Interaction, 2(2), 167. doi:10.1207/s15327051hci0202_3


=== Page 147 ===

-  Golledge, R. G., Loomis, J. M., Klatzky, R. L., Flury, A., and Yang, X. L. (1991). Designing a personal guidance system to aid navigation without sight: progress on the GIS component. International Journal of Geographical Information Systems, 5(4), 373–395. doi:10.1080/02693799108927864
-  GSA’s IT Accessibility and Workforce (ITAW). (2010). Resources for understanding and implementing Section 508. Retrieved from http://www.section508.gov
-  experience—A research agenda. Behaviour & Information Technology, 25(2), 91–97. doi:10.1080/01449290500330331
-  Heyes, A. D. (1984). Sonic Pathfinder: A programmable guidance aid for the blind. Electronics & Wireless World, 90(1579), 26–29 and 62.
-  Horton, S. (2005). Access by Design: A Guide to Universal Usability for Web Designers. New York: New Riders Press.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (1998). ISO 9241-11: Ergonomic Requirements for Office Work with Visual Display Terminals. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (1999). ISO 13407: Human-Centred Design Processes for Interactive Systems. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2000). ISO/TR 18529: Ergonomics–Ergonomics of HumanSystem Interaction—Human-Centred Lifecycle Process Descriptions. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2001). ISO/IEC Guide 71: Guidelines for Standards Developers to Address the Needs of Older Persons and Persons with Disabilities. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2002). ISO/TR 16982: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction–Usability Methods Supporting Human-Centred Design. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2003). ISO/PAS 18152: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction – Specification for the Process Assessment of Human-System Issues. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.


=== Page 148 ===

-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2006a). ISO 20282-1: Ease of Operation of Everyday Products–Part 1: Design Requirements for Context of Use and User Characteristics. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2006b). ISO 20282-2: Ease of Operation of Everyday Products–Part 2: Test Method for Walk-Up-and-Use Products. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2006c). ISO/IEC 25062: Software Engineering–Software Product Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE)—Common Industry Format (CIF) for Usability Test Reports. Geneva, Switerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2007a). ISO/PAS 20282-3: Ease of Operation of Everyday Products–Part 3: Test Methods for Consumer Products. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2007b). ISO/PAS 20282-4: Ease of Operation of Everyday Products–Part 4: Test Method for the Installation of Consumer Products. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2008). ISO 9241-171: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction–Part 171: Guidance on Software Accessibility. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  9241-20: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction—Part 20: Accessibility Guidelines for Information/Communication Technology (ICT) Equipment and Services. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  International Standards Organization (ISO). (2010). ISO 9241-210: Ergonomics of Human-System Interaction—Part 210: Human-Centred Design for Interactive Systems. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  Japanese Standards Association (JSA). (2006). JIS X 8341-5. Tokyo: JSA.
-  Kay, L. (1964). An ultrasonic sensing probe as a mobility aid for the blind. Ultrasonics, 2(2), 53–59. doi:10.1016/0041-624X(64)90382-8


=== Page 149 ===

-  Kay, L. (1974). A sonar aid to enhance spatial perception of the blind: Engineering design and evaluation. Radio and Electronic Engineer, 44(11), 605–627. doi:10.1049/ree.1974.0148
-  Kay, L. (2000). Auditory perception of objects by blind persons, using a bioacoustic high resolution sonar. Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 107(6), 3266–3275.
-  Kay, L. (2001). Bioacoustic spatial perception by humans: A controlled laboratory measurement of spatial resolution without distal cues. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 109(2), 803–808. doi:10.1121/1.1336138
-  Kirakowski, J. (2002). Is ergonomics empirical? Ergonomics, 45(14–15), 995–997. doi:10.1080/ 00140130210166889
-  Kramer, G., Walker, B., Bonebright, T., Cook, P., Flowers, J., Miner, N., et al. (1997). Sonification report: Status of the field and research agenda. Retrieved from
-  Kurosu, M. (2010). Concept Structure of UX (User Experience) and Its Measurement. Paper presented at the APCHI & Ergofuture 2010: Joint International Conference of APCHI (Asia Pacific Computer Human Interaction) 2010 and Ergofuture 2010, Bali, Indonesia. Retrieved from http://iea.cc/ upload/Ergofuture%202010%20Brochure.pdf
-  Kurosu, M., and Ando, M. (2008). The Psychology of Non-Selection and Waste: A Tentative Approach for Constructing the User Behavior Theory Based on the Artifact Development Analysis. Paper presented at the 74th Annual Convention of Japanese Psychological Association, Osaka University, Japan. Retrieved from http://www.wdc-jp.biz/jpa/conf2010/
-  Lakatos, S. (1993). Recognition of complex auditory-spatial patterns. Perception, 22(3), 363–374.
-  Law, E. L.-C., Vermeeren, A. P. O. S., Hassenzahl, M., and Blythe, M. (2007, September 3–7). Towards a UX Manifesto. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 21st British HCI Group Annual Conference on People and Computers: HCI ’07, University of Lancaster, UK.
-  Lazar, J. (Ed.). (2007). Universal Usability: Designing Computer Interfaces for Diverse User Populations. West Sussex, UK: Wiley and Sons.


=== Page 150 ===

-  Mast, F., Jäncke, L., Loomis, J. M., Klatzky, R. L., Avraamides, M., Lippa, Y., et al. (2007). Functional Equivalence of Spatial Images Produced by Perception and Spatial Language. Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-0-387-71978-8_3
-  Meijer, P. B. L. (1992). An experimental system for auditory image representations. Biomedical Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, 39(2), 112–121. doi:10.1109/10.121642
-  Mele, M. L., Borsci, S., Rugo, A., Federici, S., Liotta, G., Trotta, F., et al. (2009). An accessible web searching: An on-going research project. In P. L. Emiliani, L. Burzagli, A. Como, F. Gabbanini and A.-L. Salminen (Eds.), Assistive Technology from Adapted Equipment to Inclusive Environments: AAATE ’09 (Vol. 25, p. 854). Florence, Italy: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-042-1-854
-  Mele, M. L., Federici, S., Borsci, S., and Liotta, G. (2010). Beyond a visuocentric way of a visual web search clustering engine: The sonification of WhatsOnWeb. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 1, pp. 351–357). Berlin: Springer. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-14097-6_56
-  Meltzoff, A. N., and Decety, J. (2003). What imitation tells us about social cognition: A rapprochement between developmental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological Sciences, 358(1431), 491–500. doi:10.1098/ rstb.2002.1261
-  Merabet, L., Pogge, D., Stern, W. M., Bhatt, E., Hemond, C., Maguire, S., et al. (2008). Activation of Visual Cortex Using Crossmodal Retinotopic Mapping. Paper presented at the 14th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM): HBM ’08, Melburne, Australia. Retrieved from http://www.seeingwithsound.com/hbm2008.html
-  Millar, S. (1994). Understanding and Representing Space: Theory and Evidence from Studies with Blind and Sighted Children. New York: Oxford University Press.
-  Morrissette, D. L., Goodrich, G. L., and Hennessey, J. J. (1981). A follow-up study of the Mowat Sensor’s applications, frequency of use, and maintenance reliability. Journal of Visual Impairment and Blindness,


=== Page 151 ===

-  In D. Gentner and A. L. Steven (Eds.), Mental Models (pp. 7–14). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Earlbaum Associates.
-  Norman, D. A. (1998). The Invisible Computer: Why Good Products Can Fail, the Personal Computer is So Complex, and Information Appliances are the Solution. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-  Norman, D. A., Miller, J., and Henderson, A. (1995, May 7–11). What You See, Some of What’s in the Future, and How We Go about Doing It: HI at Apple Computer. Paper presented at the Conference Companion on Human Factors in Computing Systems: CHI ’95, Denver, CO. doi:10.1145/ 223355.223477
-  Olivetti Belardinelli, M., Federici, S., Delogu, F., and Palmiero, M. (2009). Sonification of spatial information: Audio-tactile exploration strategies by normal and blind subjects. In C. Stephanidis (Ed.), Universal Access in HCI, Part II, HCII 2009, LNCS 5615 (pp. 557–563). Berlin: SpringerVerlag. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-02710-9_62
-  Olivetti Belardinelli, M., Santangelo, V., Botta, F., and Federici, S. (2007). Are vertical meridian effects due to audio-visual interference? A new confirmation with deaf subjects. Disability and Rehabilitation, 29(10), 797–804. doi:10.1080/09638280600919780
-  Petrie, H., and Bevan, N. (2009). The evaluation of accessibility, usability, and user experience. In C. Stephanidis (Ed.), The Universal Access Handbook (pp. 299–314). Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.
-  Petrie, H., and Kheir, O. (2007). The Relationship between Accessibility and Usability of Websites. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, San Jose, CA. Retrieved from http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1240624.1240688. doi:10.1145/1240624.1240688
-  Roto, V., Law, E., Vermeeren, A., and Hoonhout, J. (2011). User Experience White Paper. Result from Dagstuhl Seminar on Demarcating User Experience, September 15–18, 2010. Retrieved from http:// www.allaboutux.org/files/UX-WhitePaper.pdf
-  Roulstone, A. (2010). Access and accessibility. In J. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of


=== Page 152 ===

-  Rehabilitation (pp. 1–12). Buffalo, NY: Center for International Rehabilitation Research Information and Exchange (CIRRIE). Retrieved from http://cirrie.buffalo.edu/encyclopedia/article.php?id = 153&language = en
-  Rugo, A., Mele, M. L., Liotta, G., Trotta, F., Di Giacomo, E., Borsci, S., et al. (2009). A visual sonificated web search clustering engine. Cognitive Processing, 10(Suppl 2), 286–289. doi:10.1007/ s10339-009-0317-4
-  Scherer, M. J., and DiCowden, M. A. (2008). Organizing future research and intervention efforts on the impact and effects of gender differences on disability and rehabilitation: The usefulness of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Disability and Rehabilitation, 30(3), 161–165. doi:10.1080/09638280701532292
-  Shinn-Cunningham, B. G., Zurek, P. M., Stutman, E. R., and Berkovitz, R. (1996). Perception of Azimuth for Sources Simulated Using Two Loudspeakers in Natural Listening Environments. Paper presented at the 19th Association for Research in Otolaryngology Midwinter Meeting, St. Petersburg Beach, FL.
-  Shneiderman, B. (2003). Leonardo’s Laptop: Human Needs and the New Computing Technologies. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
-  Greenberg, R. M. (1985). Guidelines for the Syntactic Design of Audio Cues in Computer Interfaces. (UCRL-93464).
-  Thinus-Blanc, C., and Gaunet, F. (1997). Representation of space in blind persons: Vision as a spatial sense? Psychological Bulletin, 121(1), 20–42. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.121.1.20
-  for knowledge acquisition from cartographic maps by blind and visually impaired adults. Cartographic Journal, 34(2), 93–110.
-  Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI). (2006). Introduction to Web Accessibility. Retrieved from http:// www.w3.org/WAI/intro/accessibility.php
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2001). ICF: International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.


=== Page 153 ===

-  World Health Organization (WHO), and World Bank. (2011). World Report on Disability. Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Zhao, H., Plaisant, C., and Shneiderman, B. (2005). “I Hear the Pattern”: Interactive Sonification of Geographical Data Patterns. Paper presented at the CHI ’05 extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems, Portland, OR. Retrieved from http://portal.acm.org/citation. cfm?doid = 1056808.1057052
-  Zhao, H., Plaisant, C., Shneiderman, B., and Duraiswami, R. (2004, July 6–9). Sonification of GeoReferenced Data for Auditory Information Seeking: Design Principle and Pilot Study. Paper presented at the 10th Meeting of the International Conference on Auditory Display: ICAD ’04, Sydney, Austrailia. doi:10.1.1.140.8467-1
-  Zhao, H., Plaisant, C., Shneiderman, B., and Lazar, J. (2008). Data sonification for users with visual Impairment. ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction, 15(1), 1–28. doi:10.1145/ 1352782.1352786
-  Zimmer, H. D. (2001). The interface between language and visuo-spatial representations. In M. Denis, R. Logie, C. Cornoldo, M. de Vega and J. EngelKamp (Eds.), Imagery, Language and Visuo-Spatial Thinking (pp. 109–136). London: Psychology Press.
-  a disability policy. Milbank Quarterly, 67(Suppl 2 Pt. 2), 401–428. doi:10.2307/3350151 This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 154 ===
16 16. Web Solutions for Rehabilitation and Daily Life
-  Atkinson, R. C., and Shiffrin, R. M. (1971). The control of short-term memory. Scientific American, 225(2), 82–90.
-  Avraamides, M. N., Loomis, J. M., Klatzky, R. L., and Golledge, R. G. (2004). Functional equivalence of spatial representations derived from vision and language: Evidence from allocentric judgments. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 30(4), 801–814.
-  Balch, D., Rosenthal, D., and Taylor, C. (2006). The 2005 “Last Chance Bravo” Bioterrorism Exercise: A Report on the Efficacy of Communications Technologies and Telemedicine for Disaster Response. Paper presented at the SAIS 2006 Proceedings. Paper 9. http://aisel.aisnet.org/sais2006/9
-  Balch, D. C., and Tichenor, J. M. (1997). Telemedicine expanding the scope of health care information. Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association:JAMIA, 4(1), 1–5.
-  Brooke, J. (1996). SUS: A quick and dirty usability scale. In P. W. Jordan, B. Thomas, B. A. Weerdmeester and A. L. McClelland (Eds.), Usability Evaluation in Industry. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.
-  Bryant, D. J. (1992). A spatial representation system in humans. Psycoloquy, 3(16).
-  Electromyogram-based cursor control system for users with motor disabilities. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 4061, pp. 905–912). Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.
-  de Vega, M., Cocude, M., Denis, M., Rodrigo, M. J., and Zimmer, H. D. (2001). The interface between language and visuo-spatial representations. In M. Denis, R. H. Logie, C. Cornoldi, M. de Vega and J. Engelkamp (Eds.), Imagery, Language and Visuo-Spatial Thinking. Hove, UK: Psychology Press.
-  Di Giacomo, E., Didimo, W., Grilli, L., and Liotta, G. (2007). Graph visualization techniques for web clustering engines. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 13(2), 294–304. doi:


=== Page 155 ===

-  Di Giacomo, E., Liotta, G., and Federici, S. (2010). Information Visualization Techniques for Motion Impaired People. Paper presented at the 3rd International Conference on Health Informatics (HEALTHINF 2010).
-  Fejtová, M., Fejt, J., and Štěpánková, O. (2006). Eye as an actuator. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 4061, pp. 954– 961), Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.
-  Hauber, R. P., Vesmarovich, S., and Dufour, L. (2002). The use of computers and the Internet as a source of health information for people with disabilities. Rehabilation Nursing, 27(4), 142–145.
-  Hermens, H., Huijgen, B., Giacomozzi, C., Ilsbroukx, S., Macellari, V., Prats, E., et al. (2007). Clinical assessment of the HELLODOC tele-rehabilitation service. Annali dell’Istituto Superire di Sanita, 44(2), 154–163.
-  Pyle Krages, K., and Helfand, M. (2006). Diagnosis, access and outcomes: Update of a systematic review of telemedicine services. Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare, 12(Suppl 2), 3–31. doi: 10.1258/135763306778393117
-  Huijgen, B. C., Vollenbroek-Hutten, M. M., Zampolini, M., Opisso, E., Bernabeu, M., Van Nieuwenhoven, J., et al. (2008). Feasibility of a home-based telerehabilitation system compared to usual care: Arm/hand function in patients with stroke, traumatic brain injury and multiple sclerosis. Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare, 14(5), 249–256. doi: 10.1258/jtt.2008.080104
-  Hwang, F., Keates, S., Langdon, P., and Clarkson, P. J. (2003). Multiple Haptic Targets for MotionImpaired Computer Users. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, Ft. Lauderdale, FL.
-  Itoh, K. (2006). Light spot operated mouse emulator for cervical spinal-cord injured PC users. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 4061, pp. 973–980–980), Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.
-  Kramer, G. (1994). Auditory Display: Sonification,


=== Page 156 ===

-  Audification, and Auditory Interfaces. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley.
-  Kramer, G., Walker, B., Bonebright, T., Cook, P., Flowers, J., Miner, N., and Neuhoff, J. (1997). Sonification Report: Status of the Field and Research Agenda, International Community for Auditory Display. Retrieved from
-  Lathan, C. E., Kinsella, A., Rosen, M. J., Winters, J., and Trepagnier, C. (1999). Aspects of human factors engineering in home telemedicine and telerehabilitation systems. Telemedicine Journal, 5(2), 169–175. doi: 10.1089/107830299312131
-  Llewellyn, C. (1995). The role of telemedicine in disaster medicine. Journal of Medical Systems, 19(1), 29–34. doi: 10.1007/bf02257188
-  Lyman, P., and Varian, H. R. (2003). How Much Information 2003. Berkeley, CA: University of California at Berkeley, School of Information Management and Systems.
-  Mair, F., Whitten, P., May, C., and Doolittle, G. C. (2000). Patients’ perceptions of a telemedicine specialty clinic. Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare, 6(1), 36–40. doi: 10.1258/1357633001933925
-  Manaris, B., McGivers, M., and Lagoudakis, M. (2002). A listening keyboard for users with motor impairments—A usability study. International Journal of Speech Technology, 5(4), 371–388. doi: 10.1.1.13.8194
-  Mele, M. L., Borsci, S., Rugo, A., Federici, S., Liotta, G., Trotta, F., and Di Giacomo, E. (2009). An Accessible Web Searching: An On-Going Research Project (Assistive Technology Research Series ed. Vol. 25). Amsterdam: IOS press. doi: 10.3233/978-1-60750-042-1-854.
-  Mele, M. L., Federici, S., Borsci, S., and Liotta, G. (2010). Beyond A Visuocentric Way of a Visual Web Search Clustering Engine: The Sonification of WhatsOnWeb. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Computers Helping People with Special Needs: Part I, Vienna, Austria. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-14097-6_56.
-  Michelle, J. J., Kimberly, J. W., John, A., Dominic, N., Elaine, S., Judith, K., et al. (2007). Task-oriented and purposeful robot-assisted therapy. In S. S. Kommu (Ed.),


=== Page 157 ===

-  Usability Heuristics. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems: Celebrating Interdependence, Boston, MA.
-  Norman, D. A. (1983). Some observations on mental models. In D. Gentner and A. Steven (Eds.), Mental Models (pp. 7–14). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
-  Ntoa, S., Savidis, A., and Stephanidis, C. (2004). FastScanner: An accessibility tool for motor impaired users. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler, and D. Burger (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 3118, pp. 626–626). Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.
-  Pettersen, S., Uldal, S. B., Baardsgard, A., Amundsen, M., Myrvang, R., Nordvag, D., and Stenmarkl, H. (1999). The North Norwegian Health Net. Journal of Telemedicine and Telecare, 5(Suppl 1), 34–36. doi: 10.1258/1357633991932469
-  Roberts, J., Slattery, O., and Kardos, D. (2000). 49.2: Rotating-wheel Braille display for continuous refreshable Braille. SID Symposium Digest of Technical Papers, 31(1), 1130–1133. doi: 10.1889/1.1832864
-  Roulstone, A. (2010). Access and accessibility. In J. H. Stone and M. Blouin (Eds.), International Encyclopedia of Rehabilitation.
-  Rugo, A., Mele, M., Liotta, G., Trotta, F., Di Giacomo, E., Borsci, S., and Federici, S. (2009). A visual sonificated web search clustering engine. Cognitive Processing, 10(0), 286–289. doi: 10.1007/ s10339–009–0317–4.
-  Salvador, C. H., Carrasco, M. P., de Mingo, M. A. G., Carrero, A. M., Montes, J. M., Martin, L. S., Monteagudo, J. L. (2005). Airmed-cardio: A GSM and Internet services-based system for out-ofhospital follow-up of cardiac patients. Information Technology in Biomedicine, IEEE Transactions on 9(1), 73. doi:10.1109/TITB.2004.840067
-  Magni, R., Magnino, F., et al. (2004). H-Cad: A new approach for home rehabilitation. International Journal Of Rehabilitation Research 27(Suppl 1), 110–111.
-  Slatin, J., and Rush, S. (2003). Maximum Accessibility.


=== Page 158 ===

-  Smith, G. V., Silver, K. H. C., Goldberg, A. P., and Macko, R. F. (1999). “Task-oriented” exercise improves hamstring strength and spastic reflexes in chronic stroke patients. Stroke, 30(10), 2112–2118.
-  Sporka, J., Kurniawan, H., and Slavík, P. (2006). Acoustic control of mouse pointer. Universal Access in the Information Society, 4(3), 237–245. doi: 10.1007/s10209–005–0010-z
-  Strode, S. W., Gustke, S., and Allen, A. (1999). Technical and clinical progress in telemedicine. JAMA: The Journal of the American Medical Association, 281(12), 1066–1068. doi: 10.1001/jama.281.12.1066
-  Struijk, L. (2006). A tongue based control for disabled people. In K. Miesenberger, J. Klaus, W. Zagler and A. Karshmer (Eds.), Computers Helping People with Special Needs (Vol. 4061, pp. 913–918). Berlin/Heidelberg: Springer.
-  Taub, E., Uswatte, G., van der Lee, J. H., Lankhorst, G. J., Bouter, L. M., and Wagenaar, R. C. (2000). Constraint-induced movement therapy and massed practice. Stroke, 31(4), 983–991.
-  Torsney, K. (2003). Advantages and disadvantages of telerehabilitation for persons with neurological disabilities. Neurorehabilitation, 18(2), 183–185.
-  Whitten, P. S., Mair, F. S., Haycox, A., May, C. R., Williams, T. L., and Hellmich, S. (2002). Systematic review of cost effectiveness studies of telemedicine interventions. BMJ, 324(7351), 1434–1437. doi: 10.1136/bmj.324.7351.1434
-  Wootton, R. (2001). Telemedicine. BMJ, 323(7312), 557–560. doi: 10.1136/bmj.323.7312.557
-  Zampolini, M., Baratta, S., Schifini, F., Spitali, C., Todeschini, E., Bernabeu, M., et al. (2007). Upper Limb Telerehabilitation with Home Care and Activity Desk (HCAD) system. Paper presented at Virtual Rehabilitation 2007, Venice, Italy.
-  Zhao, H., Plaisant, C., Shneiderman, B., and Lazar, J. (2008). Data sonification for users with visual impairment: A case study with georeferenced data. ACM


=== Page 159 ===

-  Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction, 15(1), 1–28. doi: 10.1145/1352782.1352786


=== Page 160 ===

-  Abran, A., Khelifi, A., Suryn, W., and Seffah, A. (2003). Usability meanings and interpretations in ISO standards. Software Quality Journal, 11(4), 325–338.
-  Arrouet, C., Congedo, M., Marvie, J. E., Lamarche, F., Lécuyer, A., and Arnaldi, B. (2005). Open-Vibe: A 3D platform for real-time neuroscience. Journal of Neurotherapy, 9(1), 3–25.
-  Bauer, G., Gerstenbrand, F., and Rumpl, E. (1979). Varieties of the locked-in syndrome. Journal of Neurology, 221, 77–91.
-  Bayliss, J. D. (2003). Use of the evoked potential P3 component for control in a virtual apartment. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 11(2), 113–116. doi:10.1109/ TNSRE.2003.814438
-  Bensch, M., Karim, A. A., Mellinger, J., Hinterberger, T., Tangermann, M., Bogdan, M., et al. (2007). Nessi: An EEG-controlled web browser for severely paralyzed patients. Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience, 2007, 71863. doi:10.1155/2007/71863
-  Berger, H. (1929). Uber das elektrenkephalogramm des menschen. Zeitschrift Für Die Gesamte Neurologie Und Psychiatrie, 87, 527–570.
-  Birbaumer, N. (2006). Breaking the silence: Brain–computer interfaces (BCI) for communication and motor control. Psychophysiology, 43(6), 517–532. doi:10.1111/j.1469–8986.2006.00456.x
-  Birbaumer, N., and Cohen, L. G. (2007). Brain–computer interfaces: Communication and restoration of movement in paralysis. The Journal of Physiology, 579(Pt 3), 621–636. doi:10.1113/ jphysiol.2006.125633
-  B. (1990). Slow potentials of the cerebral cortex and behavior. Physiological Reviews, 70(1), 1–41.
-  Birbaumer, N., Ghanayim, N., Hinterberger, T., Iversen, I., Kotchoubey, B., Kübler, A., et al. (1999). A spelling device for the paralysed. Nature, 398(6725), 297–298.


=== Page 161 ===

-  Perelmouter, J., Kaiser, J., et al. (2000). The thought translation device (TTD) for completely paralyzed patients. IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 8(2), 190–193.
-  Birbaumer, N., Murguialday, A. R., and Cohen, L. (2008). Brain–computer interface in paralysis. Current Opinion in Neurology, 21(6), 634–638. doi:10.1097/WCO.0b013e328315ee2d
-  Birbaumer, N., Ramos Murguialday, A., Weber, C., and Montoya, P. (2009). Neurofeedback and brain–computer interface clinical applications. International Review of Neurobiology, 86, 107–117. doi:10.1016/S0074–7742(09)86008-X
-  Birbaumer, N., Veit, R., Lotze, M., Erb, M., Hermann, C., Grodd, W., and Flor, H. (2005). Deficient fear conditioning in psychopathy: A functional magnetic resonance imaging study. Archives of General Psychiatry, 62(7), 799–805. doi:10.1001/archpsyc.62.7.799
-  Blankertz, B., Müller, K. R., Curio, G., Vaughan, T. M., Schalk, G., Wolpaw, J. R., et al. (2004). The BCI competition 2003: Progress and perspectives in detection and discrimination of EEG single trials. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 51(6), 1044–1051. doi:10.1109/ TBME.2004.826692
-  Blankertz, B., Müller, K. R., Krusienski, D. J., Schalk, G., Wolpaw, J. R., Schlögl, A., et al. (2006). The BCI competition. III: Validating alternative approaches to actual BCI problems. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 14(2), 153–159. doi:10.1109/ TNSRE.2006.875642
-  Buch, E., Weber, C., Cohen, L. G., Braun, C., Dimyan, M. A., Ard, T., et al. (2008). Think to move: A neuromagnetic brain–computer interface (BCI) system for chronic stroke. Stroke: A Journal of Cerebral Circulation, 39(3), 910–917. doi:10.1161/STROKEAHA.107.505313
-  Calvo, A., Chiò, A., Castellina, E., Corno, F., Farinetti, L., Ghiglione, P., et al. (2008). Eye tracking impact on quality-of-life of ALS patients. In Lecture Notes in Computer Science: Computers helping people with special needs. (Vol. 5105 pp. 70–77). Heidelberg, Germany: Springer. doi:10.1007/978–3-540–70540–6_9
-  Carandang, R., Seshadri, S., Beiser, A., Kelly-Hayes, M., Kase, C. S., Kannel, W. B., and Wolf, P. A. (2006). Trends


=== Page 162 ===

-  in incidence, lifetime risk, severity, and 30-day mortality of stroke over the past 50 years. JAMA: The Journal of the American Medical Association, 296(24), 2939–2946. doi:10.1001/ jama.296.24.2939
-  Caria, A., Veit, R., Sitaram, R., Lotze, M., Weiskopf, N., Grodd, W., and Birbaumer, N. (2007). Regulation of anterior insular cortex activity using real-time fMRI. Neuroimage, 35(3), 1238– 1246. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2007.01.018
-  Caria, A., Weber, C., Brötz, D., Ramos, A., Ticini, L. F., Gharabaghi, A., et al. (2011). Chronic stroke recovery after combined BCI training and physiotherapy: A case report. Psychophysiology, 48(4), 578–582. doi:10.1111/j.1469–8986.2010.01117.x
-  Cincotti, F., Quitadamo, L., Aloise, F., Bianchi, L., Babiloni, F., and Mattia, D. (2009). Interacting with the environment through non-invasive brain–computer interfaces. Universal Access in HumanComputer Interaction. Intelligent and Ubiquitous Interaction Environments, 483–492.
-  Daly, J. J., and Wolpaw, J. R. (2008). Brain–Computer interfaces in neurological rehabilitation. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 7(11), 1032–1043. doi:10.1016/ S1474–4422(08)70223–0
-  deCharms, R. C., Maeda, F., Glover, G. H., Ludlow, D., Pauly, J. M., Soneji, D., et al. (2005). Control over brain activation and pain learned by using real-time functional MRI. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 102(51), 18626–18631. doi:10.1073/ pnas.0505210102
-  as a tool to augment plasticity and outcomes for neurological rehabilitation. The Journal of Physiology, 579(Pt 3), 637–642. doi:10.1113/ jphysiol.2006.123067
-  Doble, J. E., Haig, A. J., Anderson, C., and Katz, R. (2003). Impairment, activity, participation, life satisfaction, and survival in persons with locked-in syndrome for over a decade: Follow-up on a previously reported cohort. The Journal of Head Trauma Rehabilitation, 18(5), 435.
-  Donchin, E., Spencer, K. M., and Wijesinghe, R. (2000). The mental prosthesis: Assessing the speed of a p300-based


=== Page 163 ===

-  brain–computer interface. IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 8(2), 174–179.
-  Dornhege, G., Millán, J. d. R., Hinterberger, T., McFarland, D. J., and Müler, K. R. (2007). Toward Brain–Computer Interfacing. Cambridge MA: MIT Press
-  Dua, T., de Boer, H. M., Prilipko, L. L., and Saxena, S. (2006). Epilepsy care in the world: Results of an ILAE/IBE/WHO global campaign against epilepsy survey. Epilepsia, 47(7), 1225–1231. doi:10.1111/j.1528–1167.2006.00595.x
-  Dworkin, B. R., and Miller, N. E. (1986). Failure to replicate visceral learning in the acute curarized rat preparation. Behavioral Neuroscience, 100(3), 299–314.
-  Farwell, L. A., and Donchin, E. (1988). Talking off the top of your head: Toward a mental prosthesis utilizing event-related brain potentials. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 70(6), 510–523.
-  Feldman, M. H. (1971). Physiological observations in a chronic case of “locked-in” syndrome. Neurology, 21(5), 459–478.
-  Fuchs, T., Birbaumer, N., Lutzenberger, W., Gruzelier, J. H., and Kaiser, J. (2003). Neurofeedback training for attention-deficit/ hyperactivity disorder in children: A comparison with methylphenidate. Applied Psychophysiology and Biofeedback, 28, 1–12.
-  Galán, F., Nuttin, M., Lew, E., Ferrez, P. W., Vanacker, G., Philips, J., et al. (2008). A brain-actuated wheelchair: Asynchronous and non-invasive brain–computer interfaces for continuous control of robots. Clinical Neurophysiology, 119(9), 2159–2169. doi:10.1016/j.clinph.2008.06.001
-  syndrome: Report of a case. The American Journal of Emergency Medicine, 7(6), 581–583.
-  Gargiulo, G., Bifulco, P., Cesarelli, M., Jin, C., McEwan, A., and van Schaik, A. (2010). Wearable dry sensors with bluetooth connection for use in remote patient monitoring systems. Studies in Health Technology and Informatics, 161, 57–65.


=== Page 164 ===

-  Bristle-Sensors—Low-cost flexible passive dry EEG electrodes for neurofeedback and BCI applications. Journal of Neural Engineering, 8(2), 025008. doi:10.1088/1741–2560/8/2/025008
-  Hinterberger, T., Kübler, A., Kaiser, J., Neumann, N., and Birbaumer, N. (2003). A brain–computer interface (BCI) for the locked-in: Comparison of different EEG classifications for the thought translation device. Clinical Neurophysiology, 114(3), 416–425.
-  Hochberg, L. R., Serruya, M. D., Friehs, G. M., Mukand, J. A., Saleh, M., Caplan, A. H., et al. (2006). Neuronal ensemble control of prosthetic devices by a human with tetraplegia. Nature, 442(7099), 164–171. doi:10.1038/nature04970
-  International Standard Organization (ISO). (2007). ISO 9999:2007 Assistive Products for Persons with Disability. Classification and Terminology. Geneva, Switzerland: ISO.
-  Iturrate, I., Antelis, J., Kübler, A., and Minguez, J. (2009). Non-invasive brain-actuated wheelchair based on a P300 neurophysiological protocol and automated navigation. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 25(3), 614–627.
-  Kamiya, J. (1968). Conscious control of brain waves. Psychology Today, 1(11), 56–60.
-  Karim, A. A., Hinterberger, T., Richter, J., Mellinger, J., Neumann, N., Flor, H., et al. (2006). Neural internet: Web surfing with brain potentials for the completely paralyzed. Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair, 20(4), 508–515. doi:10.1177/1545968306290661
-  Kotchoubey, B., Strehl, U., Uhlmann, C., Holzapfel, S., König, M., Fröscher, W., et al. (2001). Modification of slow cortical potentials in patients with refractory epilepsy: A controlled outcome study. Epilepsia, 42(3), 406–416.
-  interfaces and communication in paralysis: Extinction of goal directed thinking in completely paralysed patients? Clinical Neurophysiology, 119(11), 2658–2666. doi:10.1016/j.clinph.2008.06.019
-  Kübler, A., Neumann, N., Kaiser, J., Kotchoubey, B., Hinterberger, T., and Birbaumer, N. (2001). Brain–computer communication: Self-regulation of slow cortical potentials


=== Page 165 ===

-  for verbal communication. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 82(11), 1533–1539.
-  Kübler, A., Nijboer, F., Mellinger, J., Vaughan, T. M., Pawelzik, H., Schalk, G., et al. (2005). Patients with ALS can use sensorimotor rhythms to operate a brain–computer interface. Neurology, 64(10), 1775–1777. doi:10.1212/01.WNL.0000158616.43002.6D
-  Lai, S. M., Studenski, S., Duncan, P. W., and Perera, S. (2002). Persisting consequences of stroke measured by the stroke impact scale. Stroke: A Journal of Cerebral Circulation, 33(7), 1840–1844.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Antonucci, M., et al. (2008). Microswitch-Based programs for persons with multiple disabilities: An overview of some recent developments. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 106(2), 355–370.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Saponaro, F., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., and Oliva, D. (2010). A microswitch to enable a woman with acquired brain injury and profound multiple disabilities to access environmental stimulation with lip movements. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 110(2), 488–492.
-  Laureys, S., Pellas, F., Van Eeckhout, P., Ghorbel, S., Schnakers, C., Perrin, F., et al. (2005). The lockedin syndrome: What is it like to be conscious but paralyzed and voiceless? Progress in Brain Research, 150, 495–511. doi:10.1016/S0079–6123(05)50034–7
-  Lebedev, M. A., and Nicolelis, M. A. (2006). Brain-Machine interfaces: Past, present and future. Trends in Neurosciences, 29(9), 536–546. doi:10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.004
-  Lee, S., Ruiz, S., Caria, A., Veit, R., Birbaumer, N., and Sitaram, R. (2011). Detection of cerebral reorganization induced by real-time fMRI feedback training of insula activation: A multivariate investigation. Neurorehabilitation and Neural Repair, 25(3), 259–267. doi:10.1177/1545968310385128
-  Louise-Bender Pape, T., Kim, J., and Weiner, B. (2002). The shaping of individual meanings assigned to assistive technology: A review of personal factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 24(1–3), 5–20.


=== Page 166 ===

-  Lulé, D., Zickler, C., Häcker, S., Bruno, M. A., Demertzi, A., Pellas, F., et al. (2009). Life can be worth living in locked-in syndrome. Progress in Brain Research, 177, 339–351. doi:10.1016/ S0079–6123(09)17723–3
-  Mason, S. G., Jackson, M. M., and Birch, G. E. (2005). A general framework for characterizing studies of brain interface technology. Annals of Biomedical Engineering, 33(11), 1653–1670. doi:10.1007/ s10439–005–7706–3
-  Matuz, T., Birbaumer, N., Hautzinger, M., and Kübler, A. (2010). Coping with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: An integrative view. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry, 81(8), 893–898. doi:10.1136/jnnp.2009.201285
-  Mellinger, J., and Schalk, G. (2007). BCI2000: A general-purpose software platform for BCI research. In G. Dornhege, J. d. R. Millán, T. Hinterberger, D. J. McFarland, and K. R. Müller (Eds.), Toward Brain–Computer Interfacing. Cambridge MA: MIT Press.
-  Mellinger, J., Schalk, G., Braun, C., Preissl, H., Rosenstiel, W., Birbaumer, N., and Kübler, A. (2007). An meg-based brain–computer interface (BCI). Neuroimage, 36(3), 581–593 doi:10.1016/j. neuroimage.2007.03.019
-  Millán, J. d. R., Rupp, R., Müller-Putz, G. R., Murray-Smith, R., Giugliemma, C., Tangermann, M., et al. (2010). Combining Brain–Computer Interfaces and Assistive Technologies: State-of-theArt and Challenges. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 4. doi:10.3389/fnins.2010.00161
-  Miller, N. E. (1969). Learning of visceral and glandular responses. Science, 163(866), 434–445.
-  Mugler, E., Bensch, M., Halder, S., Rosenstiel, W., Bogdan, M., Birbaumer, N., and Kübler, A. (2008). Control of an internet browser using the P300 signal. International Journal of Bioelectromagnetism, 10(1), 56–63.
-  Mugler, E. M., Ruf, C. A., Halder, S., Bensch, M., and Kler, A. (2010). Design and implementation of a p300-based brain–computer interface for controlling an internet browser. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 18(6), 599–609, doi:10.1109/ TNSRE.2010.2068059
-  Münbinger, J. I., Halder, S., Kleih, S. C., Furdea, A., Raco, V., Hoesle, A., and Kubler, A. (2010). Brain painting: Evaluation of a new brain–computer interface


=== Page 167 ===

-  application with ALS patients and healthy volunteers. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 4, 182. doi:10.3389/fnins.2010.00182
-  Nagai, Y., Goldstein, L. H., Fenwick, P. B., and Trimble, M. R. (2004). Clinical efficacy of galvanic skin response biofeedback training in reducing seizures in adult epilepsy: A preliminary randomized controlled study. Epilepsy & Behavior, 5(2), 216–223. doi:10.1016/j.yebeh.2003.12.003
-  Naito, M., Michioka, Y., Ozawa, K., Ito, Y., Kiguchi, M., and Kanazawa, T. (2007). A communication means for totally locked-in ALS patients based on changes in cerebral blood volume measured with near-infrared light. IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, 90(7), 1028–1037.
-  Neumann, N., Kübler, A., Kaiser, J., Hinterberger, T., and Birbaumer, N. (2003). Conscious perception of brain states: Mental strategies for brain–computer communication. Neuropsychologia, 41(8), 1028–1036.
-  Nijboer, F., Birbaumer, N., and Kübler, A. (2010). The influence of psychological state and motivation on brain–computer interface performance in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis—A longitudinal study. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 4. doi:10.3389/fnins.2010.00055
-  Nudo, R. J., Plautz, E. J., and Frost, S. B. (2001). Role of adaptive plasticity in recovery of function after damage to motor cortex. Muscle & Nerve, 24(8), 1000–1019.
-  Pasqualotto, E., Federici, S., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2011a). Toward functioning and usable brain computer interfaces (BCIs): A literature review. Disability & Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology (Epub ahead of print). doi: 10.3109/17483107.2011.589486.
-  Pasqualotto, E., Federici, S., Simonetta, A., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2011b). Usability of Brain– Computer Interfaces. In G. J. Gelderblom, M. Soede, L. Adriaens, and K. Miesenberger (Eds.), Everyday Technology for Independence and Care: AAATE 2011. (Vol. 29, pp. 481–8). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-814-4-481
-  Pasqualotto, E., Simonetta, A., Federici, S., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2009). Usability evaluation of BCIs. In P. L. Emiliani, L. Burzagli, A. Como, F. Gabbanini, and A. L. Salminen (Eds.), Assistive Technology from Adapted


=== Page 168 ===

-  Equipment to Inclusive Environments: AAATE 2009. (Vol. 25, p. 882). Amsterdam, NL: IOS Press. doi:10.3233/978-1-60750-042-1-882
-  Pasqualotto, E., Simonetta, A., Gnisci, V., Federici, S., and Olivetti Belardinelli, M. (2011c). Toward a usability evaluation of BCIs. International Journal of Bioelectromagnetism, 13(3), 121–122. Retrieved from Ijbem.org website: HYPERLINK “http://ijbem.k.hosei.ac.jp/2006-/volume13/ number3/2011_v13_no3_121-122.pdf”
-  Pfurtscheller, G., Allison, B. Z., Brunner, C., Bauernfeind, G., Solis-Escalante, T., Scherer, R., et al. (2010). The hybrid BCI. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 4(30). doi:10.3389/fnpro.2010.00003
-  Pfurtscheller, G., Müller, G. R., Pfurtscheller, J., Gerner, H. J., and Rupp, R. (2003a). ‘Thought’control of functional electrical stimulation to restore hand grasp in a patient with tetraplegia. Neuroscience Letters, 351(1), 33–36.
-  Pfurtscheller, G., Neuper, C., Guger, C., Harkam, W., Ramoser, H., Schlögl, A., et al. (2000). Current trends in Graz brain–computer interface (BCI) research. IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 8(2), 216–219.
-  Pfurtscheller, G., Neuper, C., Müller, G. R., Obermaier, B., Krausz, G., Schlögl, A., et al. (2003b). Graz-BCI: State of the art and clinical applications. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 11(2), 177–180. doi:10.1109/TNSRE.2003.814454
-  Phan, K. L., Fitzgerald, D. A., Gao, K., Moore, G. J., Tancer, M. E., and Posse, S. (2004). Real-Time fMRI of cortico-limbic brain activity during emotional processing. Neuroreport, 15(3), 527–532.
-  and coma. Philadelphia: FA Davis.
-  Popescu, F., Fazli, S., Badower, Y., Blankertz, B., and Müller, K. R. (2007). Single trial classification of motor imagination using 6 dry EEG electrodes. Plos One, 2(7), e637. doi:10.1371/journal. pone.0000637
-  Rebsamen, B., Teo, C. L., Zeng, Q., Ang Jr, M. H., Burdet, E., Guan, C., et al. (2007). Controlling a wheelchair indoors using thought. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 18–24.


=== Page 169 ===

-  Robbins, R. A., Simmons, Z., Bremer, B. A., Walsh, S. M., and Fischer, S. (2001). Quality of life in ALS is maintained as physical function declines. Neurology, 56(4), 442–444.
-  Rockstroh, B., Elbert, T., Birbaumer, N., Wolf, P., Düchting-Röth, A., Reker, M., et al. (1993). Cortical self-regulation in patients with epilepsies. Epilepsy Research, 14(1), 63–72.
-  Rothwell, P. M., Coull, A. J., Giles, M. F., Howard, S. C., Silver, L. E., Bull, L. M., et al. (2004). Change in stroke incidence, mortality, case-fatality, severity, and risk factors in Oxfordshire, UK from 1981 to 2004 (Oxford Vascular Study). Lancet, 363(9425), 1925–1933. doi:10.1016/ S0140–6736(04)16405–2
-  Ruiz, S., Lee, S., Soekadar, S.R., Caria, A., Veit, R., Kircher, T., Birbaumer, N., and Sitaram, R. (2011). Acquired self-control of insula cortex modulates emotion recognition and brain network connectivity in schizophrenia. Human Brain Mapping. (Epub ahead of print). doi:10.1002/ hbm.21427
-  Sajda, P., Gerson, A., Müller, K. R., Blankertz, B., and Parra, L. (2003). A data analysis competition to evaluate machine learning algorithms for use in brain–computer interfaces. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 11(2), 184–185. doi:10.1109/TNSRE.2003.814453
-  Schalk, G., McFarland, D. J., Hinterberger, T., Birbaumer, N., and Wolpaw, J. R. (2004). BCI2000: A general-purpose brain–computer interface (BCI) system. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 51(6), 1034–1043.
-  Scherer, M. J., Craddock, G., and Mackeogh, T. (2011). The relationship of personal factors and subjective well-being to the use of assistive technology devices. Disability and Rehabilitation, 33(10), 811–817. doi:10.3109/09638288.2010.511418
-  Scherer, M. J., Sax, C., Vanbiervliet, A., Cushman, L. A., and Scherer, J. V. (2005). Predictors of assistive technology use: The importance of personal and psychosocial factors. Disability and Rehabilitation, 27(21), 1321–1331. doi:10.1080/09638280500164800


=== Page 170 ===

-  (2007). Biosig: An Open-Source Software Library for BCI Research. Cambridge MA: MIT Press
-  Sellers, E. W., and Donchin, E. (2006). A p300-based brain–computer interface: Initial tests by ALS patients. Clinical Neurophysiology, 117(3), 538–548. doi:10.1016/j.clinph.2005.06.027
-  Simmons, Z., Bremer, B. A., Robbins, R. A., Walsh, S. M., and Fischer, S. (2000). Quality of life in ALS depends on factors other than strength and physical function. Neurology, 55(3), 388–392.
-  Sitaram, R., Zhang, H., Guan, C., Thulasidas, M., Hoshi, Y., Ishikawa, A., et al. (2007). Temporal classification of multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy signals of motor imagery for developing a brain–computer interface. Neuroimage, 34(4), 1416–1427. doi:10.1016/j.neuroimage.2006.11.005
-  Stephanidis, C., Salvendy, G., Akoumianakis, D., Bevan, N., Brewer, J., Emiliani, P. L., et al. (1998). Toward an information society for all: An international R&D agenda. International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, 10(2), 107–134.
-  Strehl, U., Kotchoubey, B., Trevorrow, T., and Birbaumer, N. (2005). Predictors of seizure reduction after self-regulation of slow cortical potentials as a treatment of drug-resistant epilepsy. Epilepsy & Behavior, 6(2), 156–166. doi:10.1016/j.yebeh.2004.11.004
-  Strehl, U., Leins, U., Goth, G., Klinger, C., Hinterberger, T., and Birbaumer, N. (2006). Self-regulation of slow cortical potentials: A new treatment for children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Pediatrics, 118(5), e1530–e1540. doi:10.1542/peds.2005–2478
-  Swartz, B. E., and Goldensohn, E. S. (1998). Timeline of the history of EEG and associated fields. Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology, 106(2), 173–176.
-  Vidal, J. J. (1973). Toward direct brain–computer communication. Annual Review of Biophysics and Bioengineering, 2(1), 157–180.
-  Vidal, J. J. (1977). Real-time detection of brain events in EEG. Proceedings of the IEEE, 65(5), 633


=== Page 171 ===

-  Vidal, J. J. (1999). Cyberspace bionics. Human Factors in Information Technology, 13, 203–218.
-  Weiskopf, N., Mathiak, K., Bock, S. W., Scharnowski, F., Veit, R., Grodd, W., et al. (2004a). Principles of a brain–computer interface (BCI) based on real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, 51(6), 966–970. doi:10.1109/TBME.2004.827063
-  Weiskopf, N., Scharnowski, F., Veit, R., Goebel, R., Birbaumer, N., and Mathiak, K. (2004b). SelfRegulation of local brain activity using real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri). Journal of Physiology, Paris, 98(4–6), 357–373. doi:10.1016/j.jphysparis.2005.09.019
-  Scharnowski, F., Goebel, R., et al. (2007). Real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging: Methods and applications. Magnetic Resonance Imaging, 25(6), 989–1003. doi:10.1016/j.mri.2007.02.007
-  Weiskopf, N., Veit, R., Erb, M., Mathiak, K., Grodd, W., Goebel, R., and Birbaumer, N. (2003). Physiological self-regulation of regional brain activity using real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI): Methodology and exemplary data. Neuroimage, 19(3), 577–586.
-  Wiedemann, H. R. (1994). Hans Berger. European Journal of Pediatrics, 153, 705
-  Wolpaw, J. R., Birbaumer, N., Heetderks, W. J., McFarland, D. J., Peckham, P. H., Schalk, G., et al. (2000). brain–computer interface technology: A review of the first international meeting. IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 8(2), 164–173.
-  Wolpaw, J. R., Birbaumer, N., McFarland, D. J., Pfurtscheller, G., and Vaughan, T. M. (2002). brain– computer interfaces for communication and control. Clinical Neurophysiology, 113(6), 767–791.
-  Wolpaw, J. R., McFarland, D. J., Vaughan, T. M., and Schalk, G. (2003). The Wadsworth center brain– computer interface (BCI) research and development program. IEEE Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 11(2), 204–207. doi:10.1109/TNSRE.2003.814442
-  Wyndaele, M., and Wyndaele, J. J. (2006). Incidence, prevalence and epidemiology of spinal cord injury: What


=== Page 172 ===

-  learns a worldwide literature survey? Spinal Cord: The Official Journal of the International Medical Society of Paraplegia, 44(9), 523–529. doi:10.1038/sj.sc.3101893
-  Zwi, M., Ramchandani, P., and Joughin, C. (2000). Evidence and belief in ADHD. British Medical Journal, 321(7267), 975–976.


=== Page 173 ===

-  18 18. New Rehabilitation Opportunities for Persons with Multiple Disabilities Through the Use of Microswitch Technology
-  Algozzine, B., Browder, D., Karvonen, M., Test, D. W., and Wood, W. M. (2001). Effects of interventions to promote self-determination for individuals with disabilities. Review of Educational Research, 71, 219–277.
-  Begnoche, D., and Pitetti, K. H. (2007). Effects of traditional treatment and partial body weight treadmill training on the motor skills of children with spastic cerebral palsy: A pilot study. Pediatric Physical Therapy, 19, 11–19.
-  Browder, D. M., Wood, W. M., Test, D. W., Karvonen, M., and Algozzine, B. (2001). Reviewing resources on self-determination: A map for teachers. Remedial and Special Education, 22, 233–244.
-  Cannella, H. I., O’Reilly, M. F., and Lancioni, G. E. (2005). Choice and preference assessment research with people with severe to profound developmental disabilities: A review of the literature. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 26, 1–15.
-  Catania, A. C. (2007). Learning (4th Interim ed.). New York: Sloan Publishing.
-  Crawford, M. R., and Schuster, J. W. (1993). Using microswitches to teach toy use. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 5, 349–368.
-  Dillon, C. M., and Carr, J. E. (2007). Assessing indices of happiness and unhappiness in individuals with developmental disabilities: A review. Behavioral Interventions, 22, 229–244.
-  Glickman, L., Deitz, J., Anson, D., and Stewart, K. (1996). The effect of switch control site on computer skills of infants and toddlers. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 50, 545–553.
-  Green, C. W., and Reid, D. H. (1999). A behavioral approach to identifying sources of happiness and unhappiness among individuals with profound multiple disabilities. Behavior Modification, 23, 280–293.
-  Hoch, H., McComas, J. J., Johnson, L., Faranda, N., and Guenther, S. L. (2002). The effects of magnitude and


=== Page 174 ===

-  quality of reinforcement on choice responding during play activities. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis, 35, 171–181.
-  Holburn, S., Nguyen, D., and Vietze, P. M. (2004). Computer-assisted learning for adults with profound multiple disabilities. Behavioral Interventions, 19, 25–37.
-  Judge, S., Floyd, K., and Wood-Fields, C. (2010). Creating a technology-rich learning environment for infants and toddlers with disabilities. Infants and Young Children, 23, 84–92.
-  Karvonen, M., Test, D. W., Wood, W. M., Browder, D., and Algozzine, B. (2004). Putting self-determination into practice. Exceptional Children, 71, 23–41.
-  Settings (6th ed.). New York: Wadsworth.
-  Lachapelle, Y., Wehmeyer, M. L., Haelewyck, M. C., Courbois, Y., Keith, K. D., Schalock, R., Verdugo, M. A., and Walsh, P. N. (2005). The relationship between quality of life and self-determination: An international study. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 49, 740–744.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Bellini, D., Oliva, D., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., and Sigafoos, J. (2010a). Camerabased microswitch technology for eyelid and mouth responses of persons with profound multiple disabilities: Two case studies. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 31, 1509–1514.
-  for vocalization responses with persons with multiple disabilities. Disability and Rehabilitation, 23, 745–748.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Olivetti Belardinelli, M., Stasolla, F., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., and Angelillo, M. T. (2008a). Promoting engagement, requests and choice by a man with post-coma pervasive motor impairment and minimally conscious state through a technology-based program. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 20, 379–388.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., and Basili, G. (2001a). An overview of technological resources used in rehabilitation research with people with severe/profound and multiple disabilities. Disability and Rehabilitation, 23, 501–508.


=== Page 175 ===

-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., and Basili, G. (2001b). Use of microswitches and speech output systems with people with severe/profound intellectual or multiple disabilities: A literature review. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 22, 21–40.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Cuvo, A. J., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., and Didden, R. (2007a). PECS and VOCA to enable students with developmental disabilities to make requests: An overview of the literature. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 28, 468–488.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., and Coppa, M. M. (2001c). A microswitch for vocalization responses to foster environmental control in children with multiple disabilities. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 45, 271–275.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., and Coppa, M. M. (2001d). Using multiple microswitches to promote different responses in children with multiple disabilities. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 22, 309–318.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., Singh, N. N., and Coppa, M. M. (2002a). Multiple microswitches for multiple responses with children with profound disabilities. Cognitive Behaviour Therapy, 31, 81–87.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Singh, N. N., Oliva, D., and Basili, G. (2004a). Enabling a person with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behaviour to control environmental stimulation with chin movements. Disability and Rehabilitation, 26, 1291–1294.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Buonocunto, F., Sacco, V., Colonna, F., Navarro, J., Lanzilotti, C., and Megna, G. (2010b). Post-coma persons with minimal consciousness and motor disabilities learn to use assistive communication technology to seek environmental stimulation. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 22, 119–129.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Buonocunto, F., Sacco, V., Colonna, F., Navarro, J., Lanzilotti, C., Olivetti Belardinelli, M., Bosco, A., Megna, G., and De Tommaso, M. (2009a). Evaluation of technology-assisted learning setups for undertaking assessment and providing intervention to persons with a diagnosis of vegetative state. Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 12, 411–420.


=== Page 176 ===

-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Buonocunto, F., Sacco, V., Colonna, F., Navarro, J., Oliva, D., Megna, G., and Bosco, A. (2009b). Technology-based intervention options for postcoma persons with minimally conscious state and pervasive motor disabilities. Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 12, 24–31.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Groeneweg, J., Bosco, A., Tota, A., Smaldone, A., Stasolla, F., Manfredi, F., Baccani, S., and Pidala, S. (2006a). A social validation assessment of microswitch-based programs for persons with multiple disabilities employing teacher trainees and parents as raters. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 18, 383–391.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Oliva, D., Baccani, S., Severini, L., and Groeneweg, J. (2006b). Micro-switch programmes for students with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behaviour: Assessing response acquisition and choice. Pediatric Rehabilitation, 9, 137–143.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Oliva, D., Coppa, M. M., and Montironi, G. (2005a). A new microswitch to enable a boy with minimal motor behavior to control environmental stimulation with eye blinks. Behavioral Interventions, 20, 147–153.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Oliva, D., Piazzolla, G., Pirani, P., and Groeneweg, J. (2002b). Evaluating the use of multiple microswitches and responses for children with multiple disabilities. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 46, 346–351.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Didden, R., Oliva, D., Campodonico, F., de Pace, C., Chiapparino, C., and Groeneweg, J. (2009c). Persons with multiple disabilities accessing stimulation and requesting social contact via microswitch and VOCA devices: New research evaluation and social validation. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 30, 1084–1094.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Didden, R., Oliva, D., and Montironi, G. (2007b). Persons with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behavior using small forehead movements and new microswitch technology to control environmental stimuli. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 104, 870–878.


=== Page 177 ===

-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Didden, R., Oliva, D., Montironi, G., and La Martire, M. L. (2007c). Small hand-closure movements used as a response through microswitch technology by persons with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behavior. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 104, 1027–1034.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Antonucci, M., Tota, A., and Basili, G. (2008b). Microswitch-based programs for persons with multiple disabilities: An overview of some recent developments. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 106, 355–370.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Baccani, S., Bosco, A., and Stasolla, F. (2004b). Technological aids to promote basic developmental achievements by children with multiple disabilities: Evaluation of two cases. Cognitive Processing, 5, 232–238.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., and Severini, L. (2008c). Enabling two persons with multiple disabilities to access environmental stimuli and ask for social contact through microswitches and a VOCA. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 29, 21–28.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., and Severini, L. (2008d). Three persons with multiple disabilities accessing environmental stimuli and asking for social contact through microswitch and VOCA technology. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 52, 327–336.
-  Lancioni, G. E., O’Reilly, M. F., Singh, N. N., Sigafoos, J., Tota, A., Antonucci, M., and Oliva, D. (2006c). Children with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behavior using chin movements to operate microswitches to obtain environmental stimulation. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 27, 290–298.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Saponaro, F., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., and Oliva, D. (2010c). A microswitch to enable a woman with acquired brain injury and profound multiple disabilities to access environmental stimulation with lip movements. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 110, 488–492.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., La Martire, M. L., Stasolla, F., Smaldone, A., and Oliva, D. (2006d). Microswitch-based programs as therapeutic recreation


=== Page 178 ===

-  interventions for students with profound multiple disabilities. American Journal of Recreation Therapy, 5, 15–20.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., and Oliva, D. (2004c). A microswitch program including words and choice opportunities for students with multiple disabilities. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 98, 214–222.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., and Oliva, D. (2005b). Microswitch programs for persons with multiple disabilities: An overview of the responses adopted for microswitch activation. Cognitive Processing, 6, 177–188.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., and Montironi, G. (2004d). A computer system serving as a microswitch for vocal utterances of persons with multiple disabilities: Two case evaluations. Journal of Visual Impairment and Blindness, 98, 116–120.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., Montironi, G., and Chierchie, S. (2004e). Assessing a new response-microswitch combination with a boy with minimal motor behavior. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 98, 459–462.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., Montironi, G., Piazza, F., Ciavattini, F., and Bettarelli, F. (2004f). Using computer systems as microswitches for vocal utterances of persons with multiple disabilities. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 25, 183–192.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Oliva, D., Smaldone, A., Tota, A., Martielli, G., Stasolla, F., Pontiggia, G., and Groeneweg, J. (2006e). Assessing the effects of stimulation versus microswitch-based programmes on indices of happiness of students with multiple disabilities. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 50, 739–747.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., and Sigafoos, J. (2009d). An overview of behavioral strategies for reducing hand-related stereotypes of persons with severe to profound intellectual and multiple disabilities. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 30, 20–43.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Buonocunto, F., Sacco, V., Colonna, F., Navarro, J., Megna, G., Chiapparino, C., and De Pace, C. (2009e). Two persons with severe post-coma motor impairment and minimally conscious state use assistive technology to


=== Page 179 ===

-  access stimulus events and social contact. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 4, 367–372.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Buonocunto, F., Sacco, V., Colonna, F., Navarro, J., Oliva, D., Signorino, M., and Megna, G. (2009f). Microswitch- and VOCA-assisted programs for two post-coma persons with minimally conscious state and pervasive motor disabilities. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 30, 1459–1467.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Didden, R., Oliva, D., Severini, L., Smaldone, A., Tota, A., and Lamartire, M. L. (2007d). Effects of microswitch-based programs on indices of happiness of students with multiple disabilities: A new research evaluation. American Journal on Mental Retardation, 112, 167–176.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Didden, R., Smaldone, A., and La Martire, M. L. (2010d). Helping a man with multiple disabilities to use single vs repeated performance of simple motor schemes as different responses. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 110, 105–113.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Costantini, A., Gatto, S., Marinelli, V., and Putzolu, A. (2006f). An optic microswitch for an eyelid response to foster environmental control in children with minimal motor behaviour. Pediatric Rehabilitation, 9, 53–56.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Gatti, M., Manfredi, F., Megna, G., La Martire, M. L., Tota, A., Smaldone, A., and Groeneweg, J. (2008e). A microswitch-cluster program to foster adaptive responses and head control in students with multiple disabilities: Replication and validation assessment. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 29, 373–384.
-  Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, J., Oliva, D., Severini, L., Smaldone, A., and Tamma, M. (2007e). Microswitch technology to promote adaptive responses and reduce mouthing in two children with multiple disabilities. Journal of Visual Impairment and Blindness, 101, 628–636.
-  Leatherby, J. K., Gast, D. L., Wolery, M., and Collins, B. C. (1992). Assessment of reinforcer preference in


=== Page 180 ===

-  multi-handicapped students. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 4, 15–36.
-  Leung, B., and Chau, T. (2010). A multiple camera tongue switch for a child with severe spastic quadriplegic cerebral palsy. Disability and Rehabilitation: Assistive Technology, 5, 58–68.
-  Leyshon, R. T., and Shaw, L. E. (2008). Using the ICF as a conceptual framework to guide ergonomic intervention in occupational rehabilitation. Work: Journal of Prevention, Assessment and Rehabilitation, 31, 47–61.
-  Matson, J. L., Minshawi, N. F., Gonzalez, M. L., and Mayville, S. B. (2006). The relationship of comorbid problem behaviors to social skills in persons with profound mental retardation. Behavior Modification, 30, 496–506.
-  McDougall, J., Evans, J., and Baldwin, P. (2010). The importance of self-determination to perceived quality of life for youth and young adults with chronic conditions and disabilities. Remedial and Special Education, 31, 252–260.
-  Mechling, L. C. (2006). Comparison of the effects of three approaches on the frequency of stimulus activation, via a single switch, by students with profound intellectual disabilities. The Journal of Special Education, 40, 94–102.
-  Petry, K., Maes, B., and Vlaskamp, C. (2005). Domains of quality of life of people with profound multiple disabilities: The perspective of parents and direct support staff. Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual Disabilities, 18, 35–46.
-  Petry, K., Maes, B., and Vlaskamp, C. (2009). Measuring the quality of life of people with profound multiple disabilities using the QOL-PMD: First results. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 30, 1394–1405.
-  Richman, D. M. (2008). Early intervention and prevention of self-injurious behaviour exhibited by young children with developmental disabilities. Journal of Intellectual Disability Research, 52, 3–17
-  Ringdahl, J. E., Vollmer, T. R., Marcus, B. E., and Roane, H. S. (1997). An analogue evaluation of environmental enrichment: The role of stimulus preference. Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis, 30, 203–216.


=== Page 181 ===

-  Rispoli, M. J., Franco, J. H., van der Meer, L., Lang, R., and Camargo, S. P. H. (2010). The use of speech generating devices in communication interventions for individuals with developmental disabilities: A review of the literature. Developmental Neurorehabilitation, 13, 276–293.
-  Ross, E., and Oliver, C. (2003). The assessment of mood in adults who have severe or profound mental retardation. Clinical Psychology Review, 23, 225–245.
-  Saunders, M. D., Timler, G. R., Cullinan, T. B., Pilkey, S., Questad, K. A., and Saunders, R. R. (2003). Evidence of contingency awareness in people with profound multiple impairments: Response duration versus response rate indicators. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 24, 231–245.
-  Schalock, R., Brown, I., Brown, R., Cummins, R. A., Felce, D., Matikka, L., Keith, K. D., and Parmenter, T. (2003). Conceptualization, measurement, and application of quality of life for persons with intellectual disabilities: Reports of an international panel of experts. Mental Retardation, 40, 457–470.
-  Schlosser, R. W., and Sigafoos, J. (2006). Augmentative and alternative communication interventions for persons with developmental disabilities: Narrative review of comparative single-subject experimental studies. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 27, 1–29.
-  Shih, C.-H., Chang, M.-L., and Shih, C.-T. (2010). A new limb movement detector enabling people with multiple disabilities to control environmental stimulation through limb swing with a gyration air mouse. Research in Developmental Disabilities, 31, 875–880.
-  Sigafoos, J., Green, V. A., Payne, D., Son, S. H.,O’Reilly, M. F., and Lancioni, G. E. (2009). A comparison of picture exchange and speech-generating devices: Acquisition, preference, and effects on social interaction. Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 25, 99–109.
-  Stafford, A. M., Alberto, P. M., Fredrick, L. D., Heflin, L. J., and Heller, K. W. (2002). Preference variability and the instruction of choice making with students with severe intellectual disabilities. Education and Training in Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities, 37, 70–88.


=== Page 182 ===

-  Fostering environmental control in a young child with Rett syndrome: A case study. Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 25, 215–221.
-  Sullivan, M. W., and Lewis, M. (1993). Contingency, means-end skills and the use of technology in infant intervention. Infants and Young Children, 5, 58–77.
-  Szymanski, L. S. (2000). Happiness as a treatment goal. American Journal on Mental Retardation, 105, 352–362.
-  Valiquette, C., Sutton, A., and Ska, B. (2010). A graphic symbol tool for the evaluation of communication, satisfaction and priorities of individuals with intellectual disability who use a speech generating device. Child Language Teaching and Therapy, 26, 303–319.
-  Wehmeyer, M. L., and Schwartz, M. (1998). The relationship between self-determination, quality of life, and life satisfaction for adults with mental retardation. Education and Training in Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities, 33, 3–12.
-  Zekovic, B., and Renwick, R. (2003). Quality of life for children and adolescents with developmental disabilities: Review of conceptual and methodological issues relevant to public policy. Disability and Society, 18, 19–34. This page intentionally left blank


=== Page 183 ===

-  American Academy of Pediatrics. (2001). Health supervision for children with down syndrome. Pediatrics, 107(2), 442–449.
-  Authier, E. L., Pearlman, J., Allegretti, A. L., Rice, I., and Cooper, R. A. (2007). A sports wheelchair for low-income countries. Disability Rehabilitation, 29(11–12), 963–967.
-  Balzini, L., Vannucchi, L., Benvenuti, F., Benucci, M., Monni, M., Cappozzo, A., et al. (2003). Clinical characteristics of flexed posture in elderly women. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 51(10), 1419–1426.
-  Bandini, L. G., Curtin, C., Hamad, C., Tybor, D. J., and Must, A. (2005). Prevalence of overweight in children with developmental disorders in the continuous national health and nutrition examination survey (NHANES) 1999–2002. Journal of Pediatrics, 146(6), 738–743.
-  Bandura, A. (1997). Self-Efficacy: The Exercise of Control. New York: W.H. Freeman.
-  Barfield, J. P., Malone, L. A., Collins, J. M., and Ruble, S. B. (2005). Disability type influences heart rate response during power wheelchair sport. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 37(5), 718–723.
-  Beckman, E. M., and Tweedy, S. M. (2009). Towards evidence-based classification in Paralympic athletics: Evaluating the validity of activity limitation tests for use in classification of Paralympic running events. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 43(13), 1067–1072.
-  Benedetti, M. G., Berti, L., Presti, C., Frizziero, A., and Giannini, S. (2008). Effects of an adapted physical activity program in a group of elderly subjects with flexed posture: Clinical and instrumental assessment. Journal of Neuroengineering and Rehabilitation, 5, 32.
-  Bjornson, K. F., Belza, B., Kartin, D., Logsdon, R., McLaughlin, J., and Thompson, E. A. (2008). The relationship of physical activity to health status and quality of life in cerebral palsy. Pediatric Physical Therapy, 20(3), 247–253.


=== Page 184 ===

-  Bouchard, C., and Shephard, R. (1994). Physical activity, fitness and health: The model and key concepts. In C. Bouchard, R. Shephard and T. Stephens (Eds.), Physical Activity, Fitness and Health. International Proceedings and Consensus Statement (pp. 77–88). Champaigne, IL: Human Kinetics.
-  Brodtkorb, T. H., Henriksson, M., Johannesen-Munk, K., and Thidell, F. (2008). Cost-effectiveness of C-leg compared with non-microprocessor-controlled knees: A modeling approach. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 89(1), 24–30.
-  Brown, M. B., Millard-Stafford, M. L., and Allison, A. R. (2009). Running-specific prostheses permit energy cost similar to nonamputees. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 41(5), 1080–1087.
-  Bull, F. C., Armstrong, T., Dixon, T., Ham, S., Neiman, A., and Pratt, M. (2004). Physical inactivity. In M. Ezzati, A. Lopez, A. Rodgers and C. J. L. Murray (Eds.), Comparative Quantification of Health Risks: Global and Regional Burden of Disease Attributable to Selected Major Risk Factors (Vol. 1, pp. 729–882). Geneva, Switzerland: WHO.
-  Burkett, B. (2010). Technology in Paralympic sport: Performance enhancement or essential for performance? British Journal of Sports Medicine, 44(3), 215–220.
-  Burkett, B., Smeathers, J., and Barker, T. (2003). Walking and running inter-limb asymmetry for Paralympic trans-femoral amputees, a biomechanical analysis. Prosthetics and Orthotics International, 27(1), 36–47.
-  Camporesi, S. (2008). Oscar Pistorius, enhancement and post-humans. Journal of Medical Ethics, 34(9), 639.
-  Physical activity measurement using MTI (actigraph) among children with cerebral palsy. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 91(8), 1283–1290.
-  Carless, D., and Sparkes, A. C. (2008). The physical activity experiences of men with serious mental illness: Three short stories. Psychology of Sport and Exercise, 9(2), 191–210.
-  Cavill, N., Kahlmeier, S., and Racioppi, F. (2006). Physical activity and health in Europe: Evidence for


=== Page 185 ===

-  Coutts, K. D., Rhodes, E. C., and McKenzie, D. C. (1983). Maximal exercise responses of tetraplegics and paraplegics. Journal of Applied Physiology, 55(2), 479–482.
-  CPISRA. (2009). About Boccia. Retrieved from http://www.cpisra.org/index.php?id = 80
-  Daniel, F., Vale, R., Giani, T., Bacellar, S., and Dantas, E. (2010). Effects of a physical activity program on static balance and functional autonomy in elderly women. Macedonian Journal of Medical Science, 3(1), 21–26.
-  Driver, S., and Ede, A. (2009). Impact of physical activity on mood after TBI. Brain Injury, 23(3), 203–212.
-  Dunn, A., and Blair, S. (2002). Translating evidenced-based physical activity interventions into practice: The 2010 challenge. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 22(4S), 8–9.
-  Dykens, E. M., and Cohen, D. J. (1996). Effects of Special Olympics International on social competence in persons with mental retardation. Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 35(2), 223–229.
-  Dykens, E. M., Rosner, B. A., and Butterbaugh, G. (1998). Exercise and sports in children and adolescents with developmental disabilities—Positive physical and psychosocial effects. Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinics of North America, 7(4), 757–771, viii.
-  Edwards, S. D. (2008). Should Oscar Pistorius be excluded from the 2008 Olympic games? Sport Ethics and Philosophy, 2(2), 112–125.
-  Ekelund, U., Brage, S., and Wareham, N. J. (2004). Physical activity in young children. Lancet, 363(9415), 1163; author reply 1163–1164.
-  Farrell, R. J., Crocker, P. R. E., McDonough, M. H., and Sedgwick, W. A. (2004). The driving force: Motivation in special Olympians. Adapted Physical Activity Quarterly, 21(2), 153–166.
-  Faupin, A., Campillo, P., Weissland, T., Gorce, P., and Thevenon, A. (2004). The effects of rear-wheel camber on the mechanical parameters produced during the wheelchair sprinting of handibasketball athletes. Journal of


=== Page 186 ===

-  Rehabilitation Research and Development, 41(3B), 421-428.
-  Feltz, D. L., Short, S., and Sullivan, P. J. (2008). Self-Efficacy in Sport. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
-  Fernhall, B., and Unnithan, V. B. (2002). Physical activity, metabolic issues, and assessment. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinics of North America, 13(4), 925–947.
-  Foley, J. T., Bryan, R. R., and McCubbin, J. A. (2008). Daily physical activity levels of elementary school-aged children with and without mental retardation. Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 20(4), 365–378.
-  Fox, K. R. (2000). Self-esteem, self-perceptions and exercise. International Journal of Sport Psychology, 31(2), 228–240.
-  Freudenberg, P., and Arlinghaus, R. (2010). Benefits and constraints of outdoor recreation for people with physical disabilities: Inferences from recreational fishing. Leisure Science, 32(1), 55–71.
-  Fukuchi, K. (2007). My Hope for an Inclusive Society. Paper presented at the Sport in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
-  Giacobbi, P. R., Stancil, M., Hardin, B., and Bryant, L. (2008). Physical activity and quality of life experienced by highly active individuals with physical disabilities. Adapted Physical Activity Quarterly, 25(3), 189–207.
-  Gold, J. R., and Gold, M. M. (2007). Access for all: The rise of the Paralympic Games. Perspectives in Public Health, 127(3), 133–141.
-  Goosey, V. L., Campbell, I. G., and Fowler, N. E. (2000). Effect of push frequency on the economy of wheelchair racers. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 32(1), 174–181.
-  Groff, D. G., Lundberg, N. R., and Zabriskie, R. B. (2009). Influence of adapted sport on quality of life: Perceptions of athletes with cerebral palsy. Disability and Rehabilitation, 31(4), 318–326.
-  Guttman, L. (1976). Textbook of Sport for the Disabled. Aylesbury, UK: HM & M Publishers Ltd.


=== Page 187 ===

-  Haisma, J. A., van der Woude, L. H., Stam, H. J., Bergen, M. P., Sluis, T. A., & Bussmann, J. B. (2006). Physical capacity in wheelchair-dependent persons with a spinal cord injury: A critical review of the literature. Spinal Cord, 44(11), 642–652.
-  Higgs, C. (1983). An analysis of racing wheelchairs used at the 1980 Olympic games for the disabled. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 54(3), 229–233.
-  Horvat, M., Croce, R., and Roswal, G. (1993). Magnitude and reliability of measurements of muscle strength across trials for individuals with mental retardation. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 77(2), 643–649.
-  Huang, J. S., Sallis, J., and Patrick, K. (2009). The role of primary care in promoting children’s physical activity. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 43(1), 19–21.
-  Hutzler, Y., and Sherrill, C. (2007). Defining adapted physical activity: International perspectives. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly, 24(1), 1–20.
-  IBC. (2007). Boccia. Retrieved from http://www.bocciainternational.com/boccia.html
-  IBSA. (2011). Torball. Retrieved from http://www.ibsa.es/eng/deportes/torball/presentacion. htm
-  IWASF. (2011). International Stoke Mandeville Wheelchair Sports Federation (ISMWSF) History. Retrieved from http://www.iwasf.com/iwasf/index.cfm/about-iwas/history/ ismwsf-history/
-  Jacob, T., and Hutzler, Y. (1998). Sports-medical assessment for athletes with a disability. Disability and Rehabilitation, 20(3), 116–119.
-  Jones, C., and Wilson, C. (2009). Defining advantage and athletic performance: The case of Oscar Pistorius. European Journal of Sport Science, 9(2), 125–131.
-  Kelly, N., and Lindley, B. (1994). Health volunteers overseas: Bringing rehabilitation to the world. ARN News 6–7.
-  Kim, J., and Mulholland, S. J. (1999). Seating/wheelchair technology in the developing world: Need for a closer look. Technology & Disability, 11, 21–27.


=== Page 188 ===

-  Klein, T., Gilman, E., and Zigler, E. (1993). Special Olympics—An evaluation by professionals and parents. Mental Retardation, 31(1), 15–23.
-  Klenck, C., and Gebke, K. (2007). Practical management: Common medical problems in disabled athletes. Clinical Journal of Sports Medicine, 17(1), 55–60.
-  Krizack, M. (2007, August 10). The importance of user choice for cost-effective wheelchair provision in low income countries. Whirlwind Wheelchair International Newsletter.
-  Kudlacek, M., Jesina, O., and Flannagan, P. (2010). European inclusive physical education training. Advanced Rehabilitation, 3, 14–17.
-  Kudlacek, M., Valkova, H., Sherrill, C., Myers, B., and French, R. (2002). An inclusion instrument based on planned behaviour: Theory for prospective Czech physical educators. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly 19, 280–299.
-  Rosenbaum, P., et al. (2006). Patterns of participation in recreational and leisure activities among children with complex physical disabilities. Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology, 48(5), 337–342.
-  Lippi, G., and Mattiuzzi, C. (2008). Pistorius ineligible for the Olympic Games: The right decision. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 42(3), 160–161.
-  Loy, D. P., Dattilo, J., and Kleiber, D. A. (2003). Exploring the influence of leisure on adjustment: Development of the leisure and spinal cord injury adjustment model. Leisure Science, 25(2–3), 231–255.
-  (2009). The sensitivity and specificity of an activity monitor in detecting functional activities in young people with cerebral palsy. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 90(8), 1396–1401.
-  Manfredo, M. J., and Driver, B. L. (1996). Measuring leisure motivation: A meta-analysis of the Recreation Experience Preference Scales. Journal Leisure Research, 28(3), 188.
-  Martens, R. (1996). Turning kids on to physical activity


=== Page 189 ===

-  McAvoy, L., Holman, T., Goldenberg, M., and Klenosky, D. (2006). Wilderness and persons with disabilities. International Journal of Wilderness, 12, 23–31, 35.
-  McCann, C. (1984). Classification of the locomotor disabled for competitive sports: Theory and practice. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 5(Suppl), 167–170.
-  McCann, C. (1996). Sports for the disabled: The evolution from rehabilitation to competitive sport. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 30(4), 279–280.
-  Meegan, S., and MacPhail, A. (2006). Irish physical educators’ attitude toward teaching students with special educational needs. European Physical Education Review, 12(1), 75–97.
-  Metcalf, B., Voss, L., Jeffery, A., Perkins, J., and Wilkin, T. (2004). Physical activity cost of the school run: Impact on schoolchildren of being driven to school (EarlyBird 22). British Medical Journal, 329(7470), 832–833.
-  Moritz, S. E., Feltz, D. L., Fahrbach, K. R., and Mack, D. E. (2000). The relation of self-efficacy measures to sport performance: A meta-analytic review. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 71(3), 280–294.
-  Murphy, N. A., and Carbone, P. S. (2008). Promoting the participation of children with disabilities in sports, recreation, and physical activities. Pediatrics, 121(5), 1057–1061.
-  Murphy, N. A., Christian, B., Caplin, D. A., and Young, P. C. (2007). The health of caregivers for children with disabilities: Caregiver perspectives. Child Care Health Development, 33(2), 180–187.
-  Nasuti, G., and Temple, V. A. (2010). The risks and benefits of snow sports for people with disabilities: A review of the literature. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 33(3), 193–198.
-  Nolan, L., and Lees, A. (2007). The influence of lower limb amputation level on the approach in the amputee long jump. Journal of Sports Science, 25(4), 393–401.
-  Parnes, P., and Hashemi, G. (2007). Sport as a means to


=== Page 190 ===

-  foster inclusion, health and well-being of people with disabilities Report for the Sport for Development and Peace International Working Group (SDP IWG) Secretariat (pp. 124–157).
-  Pasquina, P. F., Bryant, P. R., Huang, M. E., Roberts, T. L., Nelson, V. S., and Flood, K. M. (2006). Advances in amputee care. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 87(3 Suppl 1), S34–S43; quiz S44-S35
-  Patel, D. R., and Greydanus, D. E. (2002). The pediatric athlete with disabilities. Pediatric Clinics of North America, 49(4), 803–827.
-  prescribing exercise as therapy in chronic disease. Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science of Sports, 16, 3–63.
-  Pensgaard, A. M., and Sorensen, M. (2002). Empowerment through the sport context: A model to guide research for individuals with disability. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly, 19(1), 48–67.
-  Pfaelzer, P., and Krizack, M. (2000, June 1). Wheelchair riders in control: WWI’s model of technology transfer. Whirlwind Wheelchair International Newsletter.
-  Rabin, B. A., Brownson, R. C., Kerner, J. F., and Glasgow, R. E. (2006). Methodologic challenges in disseminating evidence-based interventions to promote physical activity. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 31(4 Suppl), S24–S34.
-  Richardson, C. R., Faulkner, G., McDevitt, J., Skrinar, G. S., Hutchinson, D. S., and Piette, J. D. (2005). Integrating physical activity into mental health services for persons with serious mental illness. Psychiatric Services, 56(3), 324–331.
-  Richter, K. J., Sherrill, C., McCann, C., Mushett, C. A., and Kaschalk, S. M. (2005). Recreation and sport for people with disabilities. In J. A. DeLisa, B. M. Gans and N. E. Walsh (Eds.), Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Principles and Practice. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.
-  Sallis, J. F., and Patrick, K. (1994). Physical activity guidelines for adolescents: Consensus statement. Pediatric Exercise Science, 60, 302–314.


=== Page 191 ===

-  Schell, L. A., Schell, L. A. B., and Duncan, M. C. (1999). A content analysis of CBS’s coverage of the 1996 Paralympic games. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly, 16(1), 27–47.
-  Sharav, T., and Bowman, T. (1992). Dietary practices, physical-activity, and body-mass index in a selected population of Down-syndrome children and their siblings. Clinical Pediatrics, 31(6), 341–344.
-  Sherrill, C. (2004). Adapted Physical Activity, Recreation, and Sport: Cross-Disciplinary and Lifespan (6th ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill.
-  Short, S., and Ross-Stewart, L. (2009). A review of self-efficacy based interventions. In S. D. Mellalieu and S. Hanton (Eds.), Advances in Applied Sport Psychology: A Review. London: Routledge.
-  Sinaki, M., Brey, R. H., Hughes, C. A., Larson, D. R., and Kaufman, K. R. (2005). Significant reduction in risk of falls and back pain in osteoporotic-kyphotic women through a Spinal Proprioceptive Extension Exercise Dynamic (SPEED) program. Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 80(7), 849–855.
-  Sit, C. H. P., Lau, C. H. L., and Vertinsky, P. (2009). Physical activity and self-perceptions among Hong Kong Chinese with an acquired physical disability. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly, 26(4), 321–335.
-  Special Olympics. (2010). Healthy Athletes. Retrieved from http://www.specialolympics.org/ healthy_athletes.aspx
-  Special Olympics. (2011a). General Rules. Retrieved from http://www.specialolympics.org/general_rules.aspx
-  Special Olympics. (2011b). Sports Offered. Retrieved from http://www.athens2011.org/en/sports.asp
-  Speyer, E., Herbinet, A., Vuillemin, A., Briancon, S., and Chastagner, P. (2010). Effect of adapted physical activity sessions in the hospital on health-related quality of life for children with cancer: A cross-over randomized trial. Pediatric Blood Cancer, 55(6), 1160–1166.
-  Sport and Development. (2011). Sport and disability technical considerations: Equipment and technology Retrieved from


=== Page 192 ===

-  Strong, W. B., Malina, R. M., Blimkie, C. J., Daniels, S. R., Dishman, R. K., Gutin, B., et al. (2005). Evidence based physical activity for school-age youth. Journal of Pediatrics, 146(6), 732–737.
-  Taylor, N. F., Dodd, K. J., and Larkin, H. (2004). Adults with cerebral palsy benefit from participating in a strength training programme at a community gymnasium. Disability & Rehabilitation, 26(19), 1128–1134.
-  Thomas, N., and Smith, A. (2003). Preoccupied with able-bodiedness? An analysis of the British media coverage of the 2000 Paralympic Games. Adaptive Physical Activity Quarterly, 20(2), 166–181.
-  Trudel, G., Kirby, R. L., Ackroyd-Stolarz, S. A., and Kirkland, S. (1997). Effects of rear-wheel camber on wheelchair stability. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 78(1), 78–81.
-  Tweedy, S. M. (2003). Biomechanical consequences of impairment: A taxonomically valid basis for classification in a unified disability athletics system. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 74(1), 9–16.
-  Tweedy, S. M., and Vanlandewijck, Y. C. (2010). International Paralympic Committee position stand— Background and scientific principles of classification in Paralympic sport. British Journal of Sports Medicine, 45(4), 259–269.
-  for disabled people: A general outlook. International Journal of Rehabilitation Research, 33(4), 283–284.
-  van der Woude, L. H. V., de Groot, S., and Janssen, T. W. (2006). Manual wheelchairs: Research and innovation in rehabilitation, sports, daily life and health. Medical Engineering and Physics, 28(9), 905–915.
-  Vanlandewijck, Y. (2006). Sport science in the Paralympic movement. Journal of Rehabilitation Research and Development, 43(7), xvii–xxiv.
-  Vanlandewijck, Y., Theisen, D., and Daly, D. (2001). Wheelchair propulsion biomechanics— Implications for wheelchair sports. Sports Medicine, 31(5), 339–367.
-  Vanlandewijck, Y., Verellen, J., and Tweedy, S. (2010). Towards evidence-based classification – the impact of


=== Page 193 ===

-  impaired trunk strength on wheelchair propulsion. Advances in Rehabilitation, 3(1), 1–5.
-  Veeger, H. E. J., van der Woude, L. H. V., and Rozendal, R. H. (1989). Wheelchair propulsion technique at different speeds. Scandinavian Journal of Rehabilitative Medicine, 21(4), 197–203.
-  Wang, Y., and Lobstein, T. (2006). Worldwide trends in childhood overweight and obesity. International Journal of Pediatric Obesity, 1(1), 11–25.
-  Warms, C. A., Belza, B. L., and Whitney, J. D. (2007). Correlates of physical activity in adults with mobility limitations. Family and Community Health, 30(2 Suppl), S5–16.
-  Wheelchair Foundation. (2011). Retrieved from http://www.wheelchairfoundation.org/about/faq
-  Wind, W. M., Schwend, R. M., and Larson, J. (2004). Sports for the physically challenged child. Journal of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, 12(2), 126–137.
-  Winnick, J. P. (2005). An introduction to adapted physical education and sport. In J. P. Winnick (Ed.), Adapted Physical Education and Sport (4th ed., pp. 3–20). Champaigne, IL: Human Kinetics.
-  World Health Organization (WHO). (2010). Global Recommendations on Physical Activity for Health. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization.
-  Wrotniak, B. H., Epstein, L. H., Dorn, J. M., Jones, K. E., and Kondilis, V. A. (2006). The relationship between motor proficiency and physical activity in children. Pediatrics, 118(6), e1758–1765. This page intentionally left blank Health condition (disorder or disease) Body function and structures Medical diagnoses* User driven process** Assistive solution Environmental factors Personal factors Support & follow up*** Activities * �e physician, the psychologist, the cognitive therapist, the optometrist, the audiologist, the pediatric specialist, the geriatrician ** �e psychotechnologist, the occupational therapist, the architect, the engineer *** �e therapist, the special educator, the occupational therapist, the psychologist, the consumer support, speech language pathologist, the physiotherapist Participation W e l l b e i n g M P T


=== Page 194 ===

-  biopsychosocial model. User Actions User/client REQUEST Request to solve activity limitations Request to solve environmental restrictions Providing history (medical, rehabilitation, support use) and psycho-socioenvironmental data AT Assessment Components Center for Technical Aid User subjective evaluation of technological aids User evaluation of assistive solution NOT NOT Assistive solution obtained: public health system or public/private insurance Short/Long-term use -Effectiveness -Efficiency -Usability -Personal, emotional, social, comfort with use -Subjective well-being -Benefit User living solution User checking solution User seeking solution Temporary or permanent EXIT EXIT Personal well-being, user satisfaction, and benefit from use Assistive Solution Provision User Support Follow up User agreement NOT NOT NOT Environmental assessment process (see the Usability and Accessibility evaluation diagram) Matching process: Assistive solution Multidisciplinary team evaluation - assistive solution proposal - assistive solution user-trial - assistive solution outcome User data collection 1 2 2 2 1 3 3 32 54 Setting set-up Contact START NOT Multidisciplinary team meeting for: - user data valuation and- setting design Data elaboration ICF factors (user request) Clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socioenvironmental evaluations A s s i s t i v e S o l u t i o n Technological aid selection Environmental evaluations
-  Flow chart of Assistive Technology Assessment (ATA) process in a Centre for technical aid: The ATA process
-  can be read both from the perspective of the user/client or from the perspective of the Centre for Technical
-  Aid. In the central column are indicated the ATA components. Numbered button signs refer to the chapter in
-  Section I. Their position in the flow chart show an ideal matching with the ATA process. Short/long-term use Personal well-being, user satisfaction, and benefit from use User living solution Assistive solution obtained: NOT NOT User checking solution Data elaboration ICF factors (user request) User seeking solution Clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socioenvironmental evaluations A s s i s t i v e s o l u t i o n -Effectiveness public health system or public/private insurance Assistive solution provision User support Follow


=== Page 195 ===

-  up User evaluation of assistive solution Environmental assessment process (see the Usability and accessibility evaluation diagram) Setting set-up Contact START NOT User agreement Matching process: Assistive solution - assistive solution proposal - assistive solution user-trial - assistive solution outcome Temporary or permanent EXIT Technological aid selection Multidisciplinary team evaluation NOT NOTNOT EXIT Environmental evaluations Providing history (medical, rehabilitation, support use) and psycho-socioenvironmental data Request to solve activity limitations Request to solve enviromental restrictions User/client REQUEST AT Assessment Components Center for Technical Aid -Efficiency -Usability -Subjective well-being -Benefit - user data valuation and - setting design Multidisciplinary team meeting for: User actions User subjective evaluation of technological aids User data collection -Personal, emotional, social, comfort with use
-  FIGURE 1.2
-  User’s actions User/client REQUEST Request to solve activity limitations Request to solve environmental restrictions Providing history (medical, rehabilitation, support use) and psycho-socioenvironmental data AT Assessment components Center for technical aid User subjective evaluation of technological aids User evaluation of assistive solution NOT NOT Assistive solution obtained: public health system or public/private insurance Short/long-term use -Effectiveness -Efficiency -Usability -Personal, emotional, social, comfort with use -Subjective well-being -Benefit User’s living solution User’s checking solution User’s seeking solution Temporary or permanent EXIT EXIT Personal well-being, user satisfaction, and benefit from use Assistive solution provision User support Follow up User agreement NOT NOT NOT Environmental assessment process (see the Usability and accessibility evaluation diagram) Matching process: Assistive solution - assistive solution proposal - assistive solution user-trial - assistive solution outcome Multidisciplinary team evaluation - user data valuation and - setting design User data collection Setting set-up Contact 1 2 3 4 START NOT Multidisciplinary team meeting for: Data elaboration ICF factors (user request) Clinical measures, functional analysis, and psycho-socioenvironmental evaluations A s s i s t i v e s o l u t i o n Technological aid selection Environmental evaluations


=== Page 196 ===

-  The matching person and technology model (Scherer, 2005). The “Match of Person and AT” (the smallest circle)
-  equals the assistive solution when quality of life and well-being raise from. Universal design Sustainability Accessibility
-  FIGURE 4.1
-  The intersection model of conceptual dimensions of accessibility, sustainability, and universal design. Maximal access No impact/ high efficiency High impact/ low efficiency Specialized/ technical/segregated Accessibility Sustainability Universal design Intuitive/ flexible/integrated No access
-  accessibility, sustainability, and universal design. Environmental assessment process Accessibility and usability evaluation Modify the environment in use (Mod–Env) Impact of environment modification Mod–Env results Prop–nMP results IF Results Environment 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 IFIF IF NOT YES NOT NOT NOT NOT END EXIT TO IF Change the environment Change AT and environment Change the AT END EXIT TO EXIT Change the AT Change both Change environment Impact of a new matching process Climate impact Proposal of a new matching process or strong personalization (Prop–nMP) MATCH MATCH AT/end user Environment data collecting START Contact User data collecting Multidisciplinary team meeting for: -user data valution and - seating design Setting set-up Assistive solution Multidisciplinary team evaluation User agreement Assistive solution provision User support Follow up Center for technical aid Matching process: - assistive solution proposal - assistive solution user-trail - assistive solution outcome Universal design accessibility sustainability Mod–Env < Prop–nMT Prop–nMP < Mod–Env Prop–nMP = Mod–Env
-  center for technical aid model. Optic disc Optic nerve Ciliary body Macula lutea Choroid Iris Lens Cornea Anterior chamber Posterior chamber Scleral venous sinus Vitreous body Suspensory ligament Sclera Retina


=== Page 197 ===

-  Bipolar cell Amacrine cell Horizontal cell Cone cell Rod cell Optice nerve
-  FIGURE 10.5
-  Structure of the retina. Fovea Light direction R e t i n a Cones RodsPigmented epithelium Ganglionic cells Bipolar cells Photoreceptor
-  FIGURE 10.7
-  Histological characteristic of the retina. Binocular visual field Monocular portion of visual field Right visual field Left visual field Monocular portion of visual field Fixation point Nasal (N) S T I
-  Temporal (T) Superior (S) Inferior (I) Left retinaRight monocular visual fieldLeft monocular visual field Right retina Fovea N S T I T S I
-  FIGURE 10.8
-  Projection of the visual fields onto the left and right retinas. Projection of an image onto the surface of the retina.
-  The passage of light rays through the optical elements of the eye results in images that are inverted and left
-  right reversed on the retinal surface. Retinal quadrants and their relation to the organization of monocular and
-  binocular visual fields as viewed from the back surface of the eyes. Vertical and horizontal lines drawn through
-  the center of the fovea define retinal quadrants (bottom). Comparable lines drawn through the point of fixation
-  define visual field quadrants (center). Color coding illustrates corresponding retinal and visual field quadrants.
-  The overlap of the two monocular visual fields is shown at the top. Macula lutea Nasal retinae Temporal retinae Optic nerve Optic chiasma Optic tract Lateral geniculate body Visual area in occipital lobe of cerebrum Optic radiations


=== Page 198 ===

-  Customized toilet seat.
-  Bathing chair.
-  FIGURE 12.6
-  Pediatric wheelchair with anatomical seat and backrest.
-  FIGURE 12.8
-  Rod for holding a conventional keyboard for better positioning and viewing.
-  FIGURE 12.9
-  Talker with keyboard
-  FIGURE 12.7
-  Talker that uses simple switches to scan letters for forming words.
-  FIGURE 12.10
-  Acrylic board for communication in the pool.
-  FIGURE 12.11
-  AT resources that facilitate social interaction. Objective oriented Level accessibility and usability conformance to


=== Page 199 ===

-  the rules System User Intrasystemic relation Problems and satisfaction of the interaction (accessibility and usability) measured by the evaluator observing the users Subjective oriented Evaluation
-  FIGURE 15.3
-  The possible evaluation perspectives during the evaluation of the intrasystemic dialogue between user and
-  system: the objective-oriented and the subjective-oriented perspectives. The interaction evaluation has to
-  take into account not only the properties of a single dimension (the accessibility or the usability), but also the
-  relations that bind the objective part of the interaction to the subjective one (and vice versa). In this context,
-  accessibility and usability are considered as necessary steps for the evaluation of the intrasystemic relation
-  between interface and user. Disabled/not disabled users UsabilityAccessibility Pure accessibility problems Pure usability problems Universal design eSystems Universal usability problems Intrasystemic relation U s e r e x p e r i e n c e
-  FIGURE 15.2
-  The intrasystemic relation between users and eSystems. UX is represented as the user perspective in the intra
-  systemic relation of action and feedback with the eSystem (Federici et al. 2005; Federici and Borsci 2010). The
-  universal design properties that make up the eSystem are obtained by the intersection of the accessibility and the
-  usability of the eSystem. By following Petrie and Kheir (2007), the universal usability problems represent interac
-  tion problems of usability and accessibility that are found by all kinds of users in a bad intrasystemic relation
-  because of a bad UX (universal design problems). When the problems affect mostly disabled people’s interaction,


=== Page 200 ===

-  action, we may use the term “pure usability problems.” However, between these two extremes there are many
-  different degrees of interaction problems that affect the UX of disabled and nondisabled users.
-  NOT
-  EXIT Satisfaction of contact Accessibility EXIT EXIT NOT NOT NOT User agreement Assistive solution provision User support Users’ questionnaires/survey Satisfaction E n v i r o n m e n t a l a s s e s s m e n t p r o c e s s Effectiveness Efficiency Accessibility UX evaluation of AT Tools of the integrated model of evaluation Follow up In real world In ideal conditions (efficacy) U S A B I L I T Y E X P E R I E N C E E ffi c i e n c y E ff e c t i v e n e s s S a t i s f a c t i o n START Center for technical aid Measures of UX evaluation MPT model: • Costs: Cost perceived by user • Availability: Opportunity of access (by user self) • Comfort: Easiness of access/contact • Appearance: �e expectations of user about center • Performance: Performance of center perceived by user • Cost of time perceived by user for obtain an AT • Cost (workload) perceived by user for obtain an AT Contact User data collecting Multidisciplinary Setting set-up Matching process: -assistive solution proposal Assistive solution Multidisciplinary team evaluation -assistive solution user-trial -assistive solution outcome team meeting for: -user data valuation and - setting design
-  The dimensions and the measures of the UX evaluation of the model’s functioning of the ATA process of a cen
-  the AT, with its dimensions, is part of the efficiency
-  and efficacy evaluation of the relationship between the user and the center for technical aid.
-  FIGURE 16.2
-  Example of diagrammatic interface that reduces the search commands to be executed when accessing a page


=== Page 201 ===

-  FIGURE 16.4
-  Nu!Reha Desk example of physical contextual activities exercise. Eligibility assessment (n = 187) T0 N = 81 Randomisation Intervention group (n = 55) T1 (n = 50) T2 (n = 48) A n a l y s i s ( n = 4 8 ) T2 (n = 22) Usual care A n a l y s i s ( n = 2 2 ) T1 (n = 22) 4 dropouts 5 dropouts 2 dropouts Home care activity desk as domiciliary rehabilitation Control group (n = 26)
-  Flow chart of the experimental design for the clinical evaluation of the Nu!Reha Desk
