
=== Page 1 ===
THE SECRET TO WRITING A WINNING RÉSUMÉ


=== Page 2 ===
2. Résumé Tips And Best Practices


=== Page 3 ===
CHAPTER
-  “Begin somewhere. You cannot build a reputation on what you intend to do.”
-  ~ Liz Smith
-  Writing resumes is a stressful experience for anyone, with so much seeming to hang on the line of one simple piece of pa- per. Writing a good, professional resume, however, is a fairly easy task, once one puts one’s mind to it.


=== Page 4 ===

-  First, you must select the kind of resume to use. There are a number of options. For the purpose of this article, we will focus on three: the chronological, the functional, and the combination resumes. The chronological resume’s main body is composed of a list of jobs and experience going reverse chronological, with your most recent job first. This kind of resume is often the preferred for those hiring, and is best suited for workers with long, steady, and related job histories. For those with a more off-and-on work past or those changing careers, the functional resume is often the better choice, focusing in on a list of relevant skills and experience rather than actual job history. For the most versatility and coverage of all options, the combination resume uses both job history and skill and experience to make its point.
-  There are a few central sections to build in your professional resume. First, as a header, you need your contact information: full name, house address, home and cell phone numbers, and e-mail. Following the header should be a basic tagline or head- line, a short phrase describing you as a career worker with some specific highlighted skill. After the tagline comes the resume objective. This objective should be as detailed and plainly stated as possible, focusing in on your goals for the job to which you are ap- plying, how this will help you with your professional skills, and, potentially, what posi- tion you want to rank at eventually in the future.
-  Following your objective, it is time for you to fill out your main body, whether it be a listing of skills and experience, a chronological job history, or both together. Be clear, concise, and focused on the skills and keywords that will put you in the best light for the particular position to which you are applying. Use bullet points, action words, and clear numbers with logical and professional abbreviations and symbols. Most of all, highlight your strengths and be positive!
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 5 ===
What To Include In a Résumé
-  A typical chronological resume should have the following sections
-  Your contact details should be the first and most prominent item on your resume. Your name should be in a large font and it should stand out from all the other text. Along with your name, you should include your current mailing address, your phone number and email address. If you have a personal website or an online portfolio web- site, you can also include a link to that website.
-  A professional statement or a career summary provides an insight into what is unique and competitive about you. A professional statement should be concise - either in the form of a short paragraph or a bulleted list. It should discuss how your skills, educa- tional qualifications and experience make you a good fit for the job you are interested
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 6 ===

-  List the information about the last one to five jobs that you have held, starting with your current or most recent job to your first job. The listing should include the date range of your employment, name of the companies or person(s) you have worked for, and the city and state where the place of employment is located (full address of em- ployment is not necessary). List your title and your main responsibilities, with empha- sis on duties that are applicable to the type of work you are seeking.
-  List your college, graduate and post-graduate degrees, as well as certifications and courses that you have taken. Your educational qualifications should also be listed in chronological order starting with the most recent qualification.
-  Include details of any achievements, volunteer positions or publications that may be relevant to your professional work experience.
-  Note that you should refrain from including personal information in your professional statement. Information such as ethnicity, marital status and religious beliefs should not be included in your professional statement. Also, it is essential that you avoid us- ing generic phrases in your professional statement. Make your statement sound unique and personalized. Refrain from using fluffy statements like "I am well organ- ized and detail oriented".
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 7 ===
CHAPTER
-  Your resume is most important portion of your job applica- tion. It is the first document that potential employers see, and if they are not impressed, chances are they won’t look at the rest of your job application. A good quality resume could be the deciding factor in your job search success. In such cases, you cannot afford to show potential employers a poorly-formatted and visually unappealing advertisement of your experience and skills.


=== Page 8 ===
1. Organize your resume properly
-  Your resume must be clearly organized. Separate out your resume into sections and list out items in each section in a chronological order.
-  A typical chronological resume should have the following sections -
-  Make sure that your resume is legible and appropriately spaced. A resume with a lot of words jammed together is almost impossible to read. Likewise, a resume with lots of empty space and too few words looks flimsy and unimportant. Your goal should be to have an adequate mix of white space and words.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 9 ===
3. Use consistent line spacing
-  Be consistent in your use of line spacing. It is recommended that you use a dou- ble line spacing between headings and the body of text and a single space within sub-headings.
-  4. Use consistent vertical alignment
-  When indenting text, make sure that your vertical alignment is consistent. Use ei- ther tabs or spaces. Having a mix of tab stops or spaces in different sections can ruin the appearance of a well-written resume.
-  Many companies use a automated resume filtering software that looks for specific keywords in a resume. It is crucial that your resume has the keywords that the HR department is looking for. Read the job description carefully and include the details that the recruiter wants to hear from you.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 10 ===
6. Use full pages
-  Make each page a full page. A partial page suggests deficiency and gives an im- pression that information has spilled over onto the second page. In such a case, try to compress your resume in one page. If the second page has considerable amount of information, try to use the full page.
-  Serif fonts (fonts with small line extending from the top and bottom) are much easier to read on a computer screen. Use serif fonts if possible. Here is a list of some common serif fonts -
-  If possible, refrain from using monospaced fonts like Courier as these fonts are difficult to read.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 11 ===
 8. Never use all uppercase letters
-  Never use all-caps (all uppercase letters) in your resume. It makes your resume almost impossible to read.

9. Use italics and boldfacing to add emphasis
-  Use italics and boldfacing moderately to make certain sections more evident. Re- frain from underlining text as it makes your resume lose some visual clarity.
-  10. Make your resume clear, concise and to the point.
-  HR managers spend less than 20 seconds scanning a resume and they might dis- card your resume if they find it too vague. Make sure that your resume is concise and pertinent. Avoid including irrelevant information. Arrange your information in such a way that the most important points are easily visible.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 12 ===
11. Use effective job titles
-  Since you get less than 20 seconds to showcase your qualifications and accom- plishments to your potential employer, make sure that your titles stand out. Try to make them as descriptive and attention-grabbing as possible.
-  12. Write a Focussed Profile Section
-  Include an effective and focussed Profile section. This section should be such that it grabs the readers attention. Use this section to indicate what you hope to do for the company. Using a bulleted list is preferred.
-  13. Proofread it at least twice
-  It is hard to overstate the importance of proofreading your resume. Read your re- sume twice and look out for common spelling mistakes or grammatical errors. Also get help from a friend if possible.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 13 ===
 14. Showcase accomplishments instead of responsibilities
-  In the Experience section, highlight your achievements and accomplishments in- stead of listing out your duties and responsibilities. Also, whenever possible, pre- sent your work experience as challenges or problems solved. A recruiter would al- ready know the responsibilities of the job but would be more interested in what you have done for your previous company.
-  15. Consider quantifying your achievements
-  Wherever possible, use numbers to quantify your achievements. Statements like - "Increased the revenue by 20%" add more credibility to your resume.

16. Use Bulleted Lists
-  No recruiter has the time (and the patience) to read large paragraphs of text de- scribing your work profile. Instead, make use of bulleted list that describe your scholastic accomplishments, your work experiences and objectives in short sen- tences.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 14 ===
17. Include a professional profile
-  Including professional goals can help you by giving employers an idea of where you are going, and how you want to arrive there. You don’t need to have a special section devoted to your professional objectives, but overall the resume must com- municate it. The question of whether or not to highlight your career objectives on the resume is a polemic one among HR managers, so go with your feeling. If you decide to list them, make sure they are not generic.
-  18. Prioritize your resume content
-  When ordering your resume sections and the items inside each section, make sure that the important section is presented first. Also prioritize your statements by the order of their importance, relevance and impressiveness.
-  19. Use appropriate font sizes
-  Make sure that that your fonts are big enough and are clearly readable. Preferably use 12pt - 14pt font for the body and 24pt - 30pt font for headings.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 15 ===
20. Avoid extraneous information
-  Information such as ethnicity, marital status and religious beliefs should not be included in your resume. Avoid fluffy statements like - "I am well organized and detail oriented". Also refrain from using statements like "References available upon request.
-  21. Only include relevant skills
-  Only include those skills that are relevant to the job you are applying for. Merely stating all your skills will not catch the attention of a recruiter, also make sure to explain how your skills make you a good match for the job.
-  22. Do not include picture/photo
-  A potential employer is more interested in your scholastic accomplishments and your work experience than looking at your picture. Avoid attaching a photo/ picture with your resume unless the recruiter has specifically asked for it.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 16 ===
23. Customize your resume for each job
-  The most common mistake made by job seekers is to create one generic resume and send it out to all job openings. Customize your resume for each job applica- tion. Make sure that your resume has the keywords that the recruiter is looking for.
-  24. Only include relevant work experiences
-  Refrain from listing out unrelated work experiences in your resume. If you are ap- plying for a software developer position then including your part-time job as a car-mechanic does not add any value to your resume.
-  25. Never lie on your resume
-  Never, never, NEVER lie on your resume. If you don't have any relevant work ex- perience then include your summer internships or volunteering work; if you don't have a college degree then mention any non-credit courses that you took. What- ever you do, just don't lie on your resume.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 17 ===
26. Get someone else to review your resume
-  Even if you think you resume is looking kinky, it would be a good idea to get a sec- ond and third opinion about it. We usually become blind to our own mistakes or way of reasoning, so another people will be in a good position to evaluate the over- all quality of your resume and make appropriate suggestions.
-  27. Resume length - One or two pages
-  It is recommended that you try to limit your resume to one page. A shorter re- sume is generally preferred but don't remove relevant information in order to make your resume shorter. Use as many pages as needed to highlight your accom- plishments and qualifications but set the upper limit at three pages.
-  28. Don't mention your hobbies
-  Your potential employer is not interested in knowing that you like reading books or that you enjoy watching Dexter. Refrain from including hobbies in your re- sume.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 18 ===
29. Use action verbs
-  Action verbs can add emphasis to your resume and can help you catch the atten- tion of a potential employer. Here is a list of some common action verbs:
-  administered analyzed appointed contacted conveyed convinced standardized studied upgraded utilized Transcended Transformed
-  Ensure that your resume is kept up to date. Keep adding any courses, certifica- tions or volunteering work on a regular basis. This can save you from having to send an obsolete resume to an employer.
-  31. Don't blindly copy sample resume templates
-  There are a lot of sample resumes available online. If you are using a sample re- sume, ensure that you customize and personalize it.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 19 ===

-  Your resume should sound professional. Refrain from using slang. As far as tech- nical jargon is concerned, the HR manager or employer who does an initial re- view of a resume might not be aware of what you are talking about. A recruiter would also not want to spend time researching about the words you that used. For this reason, avoid using tech jargon in your resume.
-  33. Don't use pronouns
-  Your resume, by default, talks about you, your qualifications and your achieve- ments. Therefore, pronouns like "I" or "Me" are redundant and should not be used in your resume.
-  34. Highlight your contact information
-  Your name should be at the very top of your resume. It should be in a large font and preferably boldfaced. Ensure that your contact details, especially your email address and phone number are correct and clearly listed.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 20 ===
35. Use A Design That Grabs Attention But don't go overboard
-  It is vital that your resume is well formatted and visually appealing. Large blocks of misaligned text with varied font sizes can ruin your resume. Ensure that your resume is organized into relevant sections and that each section title stand out.
-  Use some colors (set the limit at two) to add more emphasis but don't go over- board with the design. Refrain from using unreadable fonts and fancy back- ground images.
-  Crafting a solid resume can be a tedious and time-taking process. Take your time in coming up with a resume. Prepare rough drafts and ask your friends/ colleagues for suggestions.
-  While checking your drafts, focus on the content as well as the formatting. There are lots of books, websites and tools that provide sample resumes. Use those sample resumes as a starting point for crafting your own resume
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 21 ===
37. Know your potential employer.
-  Before sending in your resume, do a bit of research about the position you are ap- plying for. This will help you assess whether you are qualified for the position or not. Also gather as much information as you can about the company that you want to work for. Read about the employer's (company's) mission, vision state- ments, goals and approach. Also try to assess the working environment of the company.
-  38. Use a good printer and good quality paper
-  If you are sending out a hard copy of your resume, make sure that you use a good quality printer and good quality paper.
-  39. Mention people you have worked for
-  If you have had the experience of working with top executives in your industry, mentioning their names in your resume might help you gain some credibility. Apart from mentioning them in your resume, you can also ask them for a refer- ence.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 22 ===

-  40. Supplement your Education with courses and certifications
-  Your educational qualifications is a vital part of your resume. However, simply stating the kind of degree that you have achieved is not sufficient. It is recom- mended that you supplement it with the important courses that you took and how those courses would help you with the job you are applying to.
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 23 ===
CHAPTER
-  on paper. It takes the human voice to infuse them with deeper meaning.
-  ~ Maya Angelou
-  The words that you use to describe your work history, your skills and qualifications can be the differentiating factor be- tween an impressive and a non-impressive résumé. Action verbs are words that are inherently eye-catching and can attract more of your potential recruiter's attention. Ac- tion verbs can make even the most mundane work experi- ence and accomplishments sound valuable and important.


=== Page 24 ===

-  We have compiled a list of action verbs that can help you make your resume more powerful. Substitute some of the verbs from this list for 'passive' and less powerful words.
-  Accelerated Advised Arrested Blazed Accentuated Advocated Articulated Blended Accompanied Affected Ascertained Blocked Accomplished Aided Aspired Boosted Accounted for Alerted Assembled Bought Accumulated Allocated Assessed Bridged Achieved Allotted Assigned Briefed Achievement Amended Assist Broadened Acquired Amplified Assisted Budgeted Acted Analysis Assumed responsibility Built Action Analyzed Assured Calculated Activated Answered Attained Campaigned Active in Anticipated Attended Canvassed Adapted Applied Attracted Capitalized Addressed Appointed Audited Captured Adjusted Appraised Authored Carried out Administered Approved Automated Cataloged Adopted Arbitrated Awarded Catalogued
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 25 ===

-  Cautioned Communicated Convicted Centralized Compared Convinced Certified Compiled Cooperated Chaired Completed Coordinated Challenged Composed Corrected Championed Computed Correlated Changed Conceived Corresponded Channeled Conceptualized Corroborated Charted Condensed Costed Checked Conduct Counseled Cited Conducted Counted Clarified Conferred Created Classified Conserved Critiqued Closed Considered Crowned Co-authored Consolidated Cultivated Co-directed Constructed Cured Co-managed Consult Customized Coached Consulted Cut Collaborated Contacted Dealt with Collected Contained Debated Deliver Delivered Demonstrated Demystified Described Design Designated Designed Detected Determined Develop Developed Devised Devoted Diagnosed Diagramed Directed Discovered Discussed Dispatched
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 26 ===

-  Diversified Engineered Facilitate Documented Enhance Facilitated Doubled Enhanced Familiarized Drafted Enlarged Fashioned Drew Enlisted Fielded Drove Ensured Filed Earned Entertained Filled Economized Established Finalized Edited Estimated Financed Educated Evaluate Fine-tuned Effected Evaluated Finished Elected Examined Fixed Eliminated Exceeded Focused Emphasized Executed Forecast Employed Exhibited Forecasted Empowered Expanded Forged Enabled Expedited Formalized Enacted Experienced Formed Encourage Experimented Formulate Encouraged Explained Formulated Ended Explored Fostered Functioned as Furnished Furthered Gained Gathered Gave Generated Graded Graduated Granted Grew Guided Halved Handled Harmonized Harnessed Headed Helped Hired Hosted Hypothesized
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 27 ===

-  Impressed Invested Managed Improved Investigated Mapped Improvised Involved Marketed Incorporated Issued Mastered Increased Joined Matched Indexed Judged Maximized Indoctrinated Justified Measured Influenced Kept Mediated Informed Launched Mentored Initiated Lead Merged Innovated Learned Met Inspected Leased Met with Inspired Lectured Minimized Installed Led Mobilized Instigated Liaised Modeled Instituted Licensed Moderated Instructed Linked Modernized Insured Listed Modified Integrated Lobbied Monitored Interacted Located Motivated Interpreted Logged Moved Netted Observed Obtained Opened Operated Optimized Orchestrated Ordered Organized Originated Outlined Overhauled Oversaw Participated Partnered Perceived Performed Persuaded Photographed Piloted Pinpointed
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes
-  26


=== Page 28 ===

-  Plotted Quantified Reinforced Predicted Queried Related Prepared Questioned Remodeled Presented Raised Rendered Presided Ran Reorganized Prevented Ranked Repaired Printed Rated Replaced Prioritized Reached Replied Processed Realigned Reported Procured Realized Represented Produced Reasoned Reputed Programmed Received Researched Prohibited Recognized Resolved Projected Recommended Responded Promoted Reconciled Restored Proofread Recorded Restructured Proposed Recruited Retrieved Protected Redesigned Revamped Proved Reduced Reversed Provided Reengineered Reviewed Saved Scheduled Screened Scrutinized Searched Secured Selected Separated Served Serviced Set or set up Settled Shaped Shared Showed Simplified Simulated Sketched Slashed Sold
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes


=== Page 29 ===

-  Sparked Supplemented Transferred Spearheaded Supplied Transformed Specialized Supported Translated Specified Surpassed Transmitted Spoke Surveyed Transported Sponsored Synchronized Traveled Staffed Synergized Treated Standardized Systematized Triggered Started Tabulated Trimmed Steered Tackled Tripled Stimulated Tailored Triumphed Stored Targeted Troubleshot Streamlined Taught Turned Strengthened Terminated Tutored Stressed Tested Typed Stretched Tightened Umpired Structured Took or took over Uncovered Studied Totaled Understood Submitted Toured Understudied Substituted Traced Undertook Succeeded Tracked Underwent Unraveled Updated Upgraded Urged Used Utilized Validated Valued Verbalized Verified Visited Vitalized Volunteered Waged Weighed Widened Won Worked Wrote
-  Resumonk - Create A Beautiful & Professional Résumé In Minutes
