
=== Page 1 ===
 RESUMES/COVER LETTERS

 RESUMES
-  A resume is a brief summary of your qualifications, education, and experiences relevant to your job search objective . The purpose of a resume is to obtain an interview . Employers will spend less than 30 seconds reviewing your resume; therefore, the information must be conveyed in a clear, well-organized style . The sections of a resume are listed below .
-  Your Name Email address Phone number
-  Current Address
-  Permanent Address (optional)
-  Web page and/or LinkedIn address (if pertinent)

 Objective
-  This section is optional. The objective can include the specific position you are seeking, skills you wish to use on the job, field or organization type by which you wish to be employed, or a combination of all of the above.

 Sample Objectives

 Education
-  This section should include:
-  Optional:

 Experience
-  List most recent experience first. You should include:

Additional Information
-  This section could include computer skills, languages, volunteer work, sports, and interests. If one of these areas is relevant to the job, however, you may choose to put it in the “Experience” section. You may also choose to use more specific section headers such as:


=== Page 2 ===
 TIPS FOR CREATING A SUCCESSFUL RESUME

 Do’s

 Don’ts

 Other Tips

 RESUME FORMATS
-  There is no single way to format your resume . The format you choose should present your strengths clearly . See sample formats and layouts on pages 30 - 43 .

 Chronological Format
-  This format is most familiar to employers and most commonly used by Stanford students . This style of resume presents your experience and education in reverse chronological sequence, starting with the most recent . Date, job title, organization’s name, location and a description of your activities are listed as part of
-  the experience section . This format is simple, straightforward, and especially useful for anyone with a history of directly relevant experience .

 Functional/Skills Format
-  This format focuses on areas of skill and can be effective in conveying your strengths to an employer, although many employers are not as familiar with this format as with the chronological or combination format . This style of resume draws attention to accomplishments and highlights your skills by function rather than your work experience and is more commonly used by people with very little formal work experience or are returning to the workplace after being away or otherwise involved .

 Combination Format
-  This format is appropriate when you have relevant work experience for each of several skill areas and combines both the chronological and functional formats . This style allows you to group your experiences or key selling points together by functional areas (such as Research Experience and Teaching Experience), and then list those experiences in reverse chronological order within each section . It is also a familiar format to employers .

 SUBMITTING RESUMES VIA EMAIL
-  Send your resume as an attached file and paste the text into the body of the email . Having your resume in the body of the email as well as an attachment gives the employer the opportunity to see your resume in the event they cannot open your attachment or do not take the time . Use a simple format for the resume you put in the body of the email: left justified, no bold, no italics, no underlines, no tabs . See Sample Electronic Resume on page 44 . Don’t forget to include a cover letter in the body of the email too . If you have your resume in a PDF file, you can also attach that with your email . The PDF version will allow the employer the opportunity to see your resume in an attractive format, utilizing bold and underlines .
-  When emailing resume files, name them so the employer can easily identify them as your resume . Last name, followed by first name and the word “resume” is most helpful .

 RESOURCES

Titles available in the Career Resource Center:


=== Page 3 ===
 SAMPLE ACTION VERBS LISTED BY FUNCTIONAL SKILL AREA
-  Arbitrated Clarified Co-authored Collaborated Consulted Coordinated Counseled Defined Enlisted Formulated Influenced Informed Inspired Interpreted Interviewed Mediated Merged Negotiated Promoted Publicized Recommended Represented Resolved Suggested CREATIVE Acted

FINANCIAL
-  MANUAL SKILLS ORGANIZING Arranged Achieved Assembled Assigned Bound Built Checked Classified Constructed Controlled Cut Designed Developed Drove Handled Installed Invented Maintained Monitored Prepared Operated Repaired Tested PROVIDING SERVICE Advised Attended Cared Consulted Contracted Controlled Coordinated Decided Delegated Developed Established Evaluated Negotiated Organized Planned Prepared Prioritized Produced Recommended Reported LEADERSHIP Administered Chaired Convinced Directed Examined Executed Expanded Facilitated Coached Coordinated Counseled Delivered Demonstrated Explained Furnished Generated Inspected Installed Issued Improved Initiated Managed Oversaw Produced Recommended Reviewed Supervised RESEARCH/ INVESTIGATION Calculated Cataloged
-  TECHNICAL Assembled Built Calculated Computed Designed Engineered Fabricated Maintained Operated Programmed Remodeled Repaired Solved


=== Page 4 ===
 SAMPLE CHRONOLOGICAL RESUME

 Janette Powell
-  P.O. Box 2738 • Stanford, CA 94309 • jan@stanford.edu • linkedin.com/in/janettecampbell • (650) 555-1234 Education: 9/XX-present Stanford University, Stanford, CA • Pursuing a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Relations, to be conferred 6/XX • Course work includes economics, organizational behavior, computer science, and statistics • GPA - 3.8/4.0 6/XX-9/XX Oxford University, Stanford-in-Oxford, Oxford, England • Studied Comparative Anglo-American Judicial System Experience: 9/XX-present Resident Assistant, Madera House, Stanford University, Stanford, CA • Work with a staff of four resident assistants in an 88-student, freshman dormitory • Create, plan and implement academic, cultural and social activities with the students • Encourage and facilitate discussion of social, political and ethical questions among the students • Build community spirit and guide residents in assuming responsibility • Coordinator for “Madera Makes Music,” a weekly educational program during winter quarter • Schedule performances, organize the budget and create publicity 10/XX-6/XX Visual Display Artist/Salesperson, The Gap, Palo Alto, CA • Designed and assembled window and floor displays • Assisted customers with selection and purchase of merchandise 1/XX-1/XX Vice President, Delta Gamma Sorority, Stanford University, Stanford, CA • Directed planning and implementation of activities for 95 chapter members • Supervised and approved officer budgets • Increased member participation through innovative motivational techniques • Created prototype for annual chapter retreat and member recognition program

Additional Information:


=== Page 5 ===
 SAMPLE FUNCTIONAL RESUME

 BEN PIERCE
-  pierce@stanford.edu
-  Present Address: 6756 Ventura, #36 Palo Alto, CA 94306 (650) 555-2190
-  Permanent Address: 13 Moss Lane Crabapple Cove, WI 55555 (612) 555-3520

 EXPERIENCE: RESEARCHING/WRITING

 ORGANIZING/SUPERVISING

 PUBLIC SPEAKING/COMMUNICATING

FINANCIAL PLANNING/BUDGETING
-  Crew Member, Pierce’s Asphalt and Seal Coating Service, Crabapple Cove, WI (6/XX-9/XX, summers).


=== Page 6 ===
 SAMPLE COMBINATION RESUME

 Patricia Dixon
-  pat@stanford.edu
-  Permanent Address: 123 Park Court San Carlos, CA 94070 (650) 555-5555

 Stanford University, Stanford, CA.
-  Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology with Honors. Course work includes biology, calculus, chemistry, and statistics. GPA - 3.7/4.0
-  Teaching/Counseling

Leadership/Management


=== Page 7 ===
 SAMPLE SUMMER RESUME

Joe Frosh
-  frosh@stanford.edu • (213) 555-5555
-  Present Address: P.O. Box 123 Stanford, CA 94309
-  Permanent Address: 345 Summer Job Lane Hometown, IL 11111
-  Stanford University, Stanford, CA
-  Yearbook Editor, ABC High School, Hometown, IL


=== Page 8 ===
 SAMPLE BUSINESS RESUME
-  JOE STUDENT P.O. Box 1234 • Stanford, CA 94309 • (650) 555-1212 • jstudent@stanford.edu EDUCATION 9/XX-12/XX Stanford University, Stanford, CA BA in Economics; Honors Candidate in Economics. GPA: Major: 3.86/4.00, Cumulative: 3.78/4.00 Relevant Coursework: Econometrics, Multi-Variable Calculus, Micro and Macro Economic Analysis, Economics and Public Policy, Imperfect Competition, Financial Economics, International Economics. 9/XX-12/XX Oxford University, Oxford, England Completed tutorial on the Political Economy of Trade and Trade Agreements. Sophomore College: Participated in intensive seminar entitled “Economic Thoughts of Plato and Aristotle.” Academic work focused on economic ideas among major Greek philosophers, and also on assumptions behind modern economic theory. Culminated in a paper critiquing rational choice and preference ranking. EXPERIENCE 6/XX-8/XX Research Assistant, National Economic Research Associates (NERA), White Plains, NY Worked with a team of four other researchers on cases relating to antitrust, intellectual property and labor economics. Conducted quantitative and qualitative research, collected and analyzed data, created and managed spreadsheets. 6/XX-8/XX Summer Analyst, Galleon Group, New York, NY Assigned to track a group of technology companies for the New York based hedge fund, Galleon Group. Worked with three other analysts in collecting and analyzing relevant financial statistics, Performed qualitative research to form an assessment of the current status of the companies. 5/XX-6/XX Economics Tutor, Undergraduate Advising and Research, Stanford University, Stanford, CA Assisted students with understanding concepts and solving problems in micro and macro economics, econometrics and statistics. Organized review sessions and prepared practice problems for upcoming exams. 7/XX-9/XX Business Intern, American International Group (AIG), New York, NY Developed a business analysis on a foreign company, located in Sri Lanka, with which AIG had recently formed a joint venture. Wrote a report on Sri Lanka’s insurance sector, focusing on privatization of insurance companies and on a recent merger between two insurance companies. LEADERSHIP 4/XX-present Staff Editor, Undergraduate Journal of International Relations, Stanford, CA Review and edit articles relating to capital inflows and international trade in emerging economies. Help with distributing the journal to think tanks, academic institutions, and faculty and students at Stanford. 5/XX-present Program Director, SAT Success, Haas Center for Public Service, Stanford, CA Coordinate all aspects of the tutoring program including recruitment of tutors and tutees. Organize

SKILLS


=== Page 9 ===
 SAMPLE ARTS ADMINISTRATION RESUME
-  Kenya Rios PO Box 12345 • Stanford, CA 94309 • 650.123.4567 • student@stanford.edu EDUCATION: Stanford University—Stanford, CA 9/XX-present B.A. in American Studies with Mass Media & Consumer Culture focus, expected 6/XX - GPA: 3.7 Stanford Bing Overseas Study Program—Paris, France 9/XX-12/XX Language, literature and theater/cinema courses taken RELATED EXPERIENCE: Stanford Concert Network—Stanford, CA—Chief of Staff / Publicity Manager 4/XX-present • Liaison between Executive Board and general staff • Lead meetings and planning of concert events • Manage print and media relations, marketing and external promotions Inphanyte Records—Stanford, CA—Executive Cabinet Member and Recording Artist 11/XX-present • Coordinate campus events to promote records and artists • Write lyrics and work in studio recording and editing Culture Pub (French television syndicated series)—Paris, France—Research Intern 10/XX-12/XX • Devised new system to catalogue and retrieve film stock • Performed internet and archive research for upcoming specials Fender Center for the Performing Arts—Corona, CA—Programs Development Intern 6/XX-8/XX • Selected to be Arts for Youth Fellow by Stanford’s Haas Center for Public Service • Implemented three month marketing plan resulting in increase of center recognition and concert attendance • Developed and designed music camp program for summer 20XX • Produced and directed promotional video as part of Capital Expansion Campaign Student Organizing Committee for the Arts—Stanford, CA—Selection Team Member 1/XX-4/XX • Chose artists and track listings for Stanford Soundtrack, Vol. 3 and developed record image Stanford Student Enterprises—Stanford, CA—Account Executive, Advertising 6/XX-9/XX • Met and frequently exceeded weekly sales goals; twice chosen as employee of the term • Designed several advertisements for clients and managed the accounts • Identified leads and used persuasive communication skills to generate advertising prospects OTHER LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE AND ACTIVITIES:
-  OTHER LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE AND ACTIVITIES: Vice President / Philanthropy Chair—Kappa Kappa Gamma Sorority, Stanford University Production Intern—Stanford Film Society short film: “Sold America” Course Instructor—Modern French Cinema, Stanford University Peer Academic Advisor—Stanford University Volunteer Dance Instructor—Bay Area Boys and Girls Club Writer—contribute to Womenspeak and Black Arts Quarterly publications, Stanford University

SKILLS:
-  Technical: Drupal web design, Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign Language: Proficient in French


=== Page 10 ===
SAMPLE RESEARCH RESUME


=== Page 11 ===
 SAMPLE POLICY RESUME

 Freda rachelle
-  freda@stanford.edu (555) 213-8866 20214 NE 39th Street Seattle, WA 98074
-  Objective: A position in environmental policy. Education: Stanford University, Stanford, CA MS Earth Systems; emphasis: conservation communication and stakeholder engagement 1/XX – 6/XX • Coursework: Green Research and Writing; Creating Sustainable Development; Promoting Behavior Change; NAFTA and the Environment; World Food Economy; Sustainable Agriculture; Environmental Education. • GPA – 3.95/4.0 BS Earth Systems with Honors; emphasis: ecology and conservation biology. 9/XX – 6/XX • Coursework: Conservation Biology; Environmental Economics and Policy; Intro to Earth Systems; Ecological Anthropology; Biology and Global Change; Micro-Economics; Soil Science; Galapagos Islands Field Seminar. • GPA – 3.9/4.0 • Phi Beta Kappa; School of Earth Sciences Dean’s Award for Undergraduate Academic Achievement. Stanford Alternative Spring Break, Stanford, CA & Washington, D.C. 1/XX – 3/XX • 10-week course on sustainable development and poverty alleviation; 1-week trip to the capitol to meet with non-governmental organizations, government agencies, and legislative representatives. Stanford Hopkins Marine Station, Monterey, CA 4/XX – 6/XX • Coursework: Biostatistics; Independent Research Project on Invasive Marine Mussels. Stanford Program in Australia, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia 9/XX – 12/XX • Coursework: Coral Reef Ecosystems; Coastal Resource Management; Research on Indigenous Resource Management. Environmental/Research Experience: Environmental Protection Agency Smart Growth, Research Intern, Washington, DC 6/XX – 8/XX • Researched and compiled smart growth case studies. Updated status of past projects. • Independent research on affordable housing, green buildings, and smart growth. Ranomafana National Park, Independent Field Researcher, Madagascar 6/XX – 8/XX • Conducted six-week research project on lemur eating habits and conservation for honors thesis. • Independently organized, developed proposals/budget, and received grants for travel & research. E.N. Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station, Field Intern, Rensselaerville, NY 6/XX – 8/XX • Designed and implemented independent research project. Presented results at symposium. Learned field techniques. Tropical Ecology and Conservation Field Seminar, Veracruz, Mexico 4/XX – 6/XX • Week of field research in tropical rainforest ecology; 10-week analysis, scientific paper writing, and final presentation. Cougar Mountain Endangered Species Zoo, Environmental Education Intern, Issaquah, WA 6/XX – 8/XX • Educated visitors about animals. Created educational literature on endangered species at zoo. Leadership: Stanford University Introduction to Earth Systems, Teaching Assistant, Stanford, CA 9/XX – 12/XX • Taught weekly discussion section on topics such as biodiversity, ocean circulation, and environmental policy. • Collaborated with team of eight teaching assistants to design sections and write exams and problem sets. Stanford University Earth Systems Program, Student Advisor, Stanford, CA 9/XX – 6/XX • Advised students on planning classes, internships, and jobs. Organized educational and social programs and events. • Acted as program representative and liaison with faculty advisors of students in major.
-  Students for a Sustainable Stanford, Stanford, CA
-  Jewish Students Association, Shabbat and Holidays Chair, Stanford, CA

Additional Information:


=== Page 12 ===
 SAMPLE PUBLIC SERVICE RESUME

 Kelly T. Victory
-  Stanford, CA 94309 655.456.7890 kvictory@stanford.edu
-  Public Service Experience

 Co-Chair, 3rd Annual Stanford Dance Marathon, Stanford University, Stanford, CA

 Kitchen Manager, Columbae House, Stanford University Stanford, CA

 Selection Officer, Volunteers in Latin America, Stanford, CA

 Volunteer, Volunteers in Latin America, Quito, Ecuador

 Other Experience
-  Tour Guide, Visitor Information Services, Stanford University, Stanford, CA

 Member, Stanford Women in Business Mentoring, Stanford, CA

 Marketing Intern, SearchRev Inc., Palo Alto, CA
-  Registration Team Leader, Stanford Alumni Association, Stanford, CA

Dean of Students Outstanding Achievement Award


=== Page 13 ===
 SAMPLE HEALTH CAREER RESUME

 ADRIANA SMITHFIELD

 P.O. Box 121212 • Stanford, CA 94309 | xxx-xxx-xxxx • asmithfield12@stanford.edu

 EDUCATION
-  Stanford University, Stanford CA
-  B.A. Candidate Human Biology | Global Infectious Disease and Women’s Health, Class of 2014
-  Academic interests: Access and utilization of health resources, emerging health technologies, gender disparities in health

 Oxford University, Oxford, England
-  Relevant coursework: Tutorial in International Health - studied social determents of health, global governance, and behavior change

 HEALTH RELATED EXPERIENCE

 Intern at Center for Health Research in Women’s and Sex Differences in Medicine | Stanford, CA 6/xx– Present
-  Research ethical challenges to enrolling women in research studies globally. Organize Global Women’s Health Conference and presentation for a conference speaker. Created and designed a course investigating the physical, emotional, and mental effects of sexual abuse through the life course and from multiple perspectives. Identified course topics and drafted course syllabus.
-  Intern at Stanford Health 4 America | Stanford Prevention Center, School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 6/xx – Present
-  Assist with the launch of an innovative professional certificate program. Develop admission process, fellow handbook, and memorandum of understanding between Stanford Health 4 America and Community Partners. Create promotional animations while working on marketing strategy and outreach.
-  Undergraduate Research Assistant | Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford, CA
-  Assisted with the development of a clinical trial investigating use of a novel drug in children with autism. Awarded a $6,000 Bio-X Undergraduate Summer Research Grant from Stanford University, culminating in a presentation at Bio-X symposium. Presented research at the Symposia for Undergraduate Research and Public Service (SURPS).

 Southeast Asian Leadership Network (SEALNet) Project Philippines | Cebu City, Philippines
-  Collaborated on a high blood pressure awareness and prevention campaign. Conducted blood pressure screenings within local village and created health fairs for children and adults. Organized and taught leadership workshops addressing team building, public speaking, goal setting, and professional career skills to students. Created a healthy lifestyle guide and leadership handbook for students.

 LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE

 Conference Coordinator, Southeast Asia Conference | Stanford, CA
-  Pioneered inaugural Southeast Asia (SEA) Change Conference seeking to spark a dialogue about Southeast Asia and its place in the world. SEA Change aims to address SEA adapting to a shifting global environment, preserving culture and society, and challenges for development. Recruited keynote speakers, scheduled day of events, secured venue, and assisted with marketing and publicity.

 SPLASH Underserved Student Recruiter and Teacher | Stanford, CA

 4/xx – 11/xx
-  Communicated with primary contacts at various low-income high schools in the bay area to draw hundreds of students to attend Fall SPLASH 2012. Assisted in the logistical planning as a member of the administration team. Taught classes on the biology and historical context of lactose intolerance to students attending Spring SPLASH 20XX

 ThinkMath Instructor, Trainer, and Assistant Team Lead | Stanford, CA
-  Taught elementary school students from a Singaporean math curriculum. Led training sessions for new ThinkMath instructors about lesson planning and teaching techniques. Organized placement results for students and communicated with parents on site.

SKILLS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
-  Languages: German (proficient); Spanish (conversational)
-  Computer Skills: MS Office Suite, Macromedia Suite, DreamWeaver, PhotoShop
-  Other: Alpha Kappa Delta Phi Sorority Vice President of Community Service & Philanthropy, Multicultural Greek Council Representative & Recruitment Chair, Data Intern at Center for Interdisciplinary Brain Science Research, Stanford Immersion in Medicine Physician Shadowing Program


=== Page 14 ===
 SAMPLE SCIENCE RESUME

 STEPHEN OLSTED
-  P.O. Box 88888 • Stanford, CA 94309 • 415-121-3434 • solsted88@stanford.edu

 EDUCATION
-  Stanford University, Stanford, CA | Class of 20xx B.A. Candidate in Biology | Minor in Mathematics | GPA 3.82 / 4.00
-  Relevant Coursework: Theory of Probability, Computer Science, Demography, Environmental and Health Policy Analysis, Biomedical Ethics, Modeling Infectious Diseases

 WORK AND RESEARCH EXPERIENCE
-  Health Policy Intern, The World Bank, DC
-  Research Assistant, Demography, Economics and Health of Aging, Stanford, CA 06/xxxx – 12/xxxx • Analyze recent convergence of male and female life expectancy in the U.S.
-  Research Assistant, Lab of Culture and Emotion, Stanford, CA

 HEALTH AND LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE
-  Co-President, FACE AIDS Chapter, Stanford, CA
-  Peer Counselor, HIV*PACT and The Bridge, Stanford, CA
-  Fundraiser/Advocate/Spokesperson, National AIDS Awareness Event

SKILLS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
-  Computer/Technical: R, Java, Microsoft Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, SPSS Honors: Levison Fellow 20xx, Stanford leadership and service program through a Jewish lens Interests: Technology Education Connecting Cultures (Stanford, 09/20xx – 6/20xx)


=== Page 15 ===
 SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS RESUME
-  JOSHUA XAVIER PO Box 90484, Stanford, CA 94309 jxavier@stanford.edu 650.555.3999 EDUCATION Stanford University, Stanford, CA 9/XX - 6/XX B.A. International Relations, with Honors. Minor: Languages. GPA 3.5/4.0 Stanford at Sea, Stanford Hopkins Marine Station, Monterey Bay, CA 4/XX - 6/XX Stanford in Paris Program, Paris, France 9/XX - 3/XX RESEARCH/ANALYTICAL EXPERIENCE Honors Thesis Research, Baja California, México, and Stanford, CA 6/XX - present Assess sustainability vs. development issues in energy production, salt production, and tourism. Compile model on effective strategies in large-scale development proposal and opposition. Researcher, Médecins Sans Frontières, France, Conakry, Republic of Guinea, and Stanford, CA 1/XX - present Evaluate decision making and donor/recipient country relations in emergency relief organization. Coordinate fieldwork independently. Researcher, Stanford/NSF Biocomplexity Project, Baja California Sur, México, and Stanford, CA 6/XX - present Design research surveys for Mexico’s most productive fishing cooperatives. Collaborate with scientists and fishermen to refine interview process for future research. Researcher, Stanford Hopkins Marine Station, Republic of Kiritbati, Palmyra Atoll, Monterey Bay, CA 4/XX - 6/XX Monitored trophic cascades in reef ecosystems. Identified and size-estimated 25 different species of herbivorous fish. Surveyed over 3,000 square meters of reef from different islands with varying fishing gradients. Researcher, Stanford Affordable Hearing Project, Stanford, CA 4/XX - 6/XX Calculated need of hearing aid devices for low-income population in Bay Area. Conducted empathy work and identified gaps in Medicare and Medicaid. Generated business plan presentation to donors. LEADERSHIP/TEAMWORK EXPERIENCE Residential Assistant, Yost House (Dorm), Stanford CA 9/XX - present Manage staff of seven in 60-student dormitory. Plan events aimed at promoting Spanish and Portuguese language and culture. Tutor, Center for Teaching and Learning, Stanford, CA 9/XX - present Counsel peers in Spanish Literature and Composition courses and French language. Policy Assistant, International Chamber of Commerce, Paris, France 1/XX - 3/XX Assembled data retention agency database and telecom liberalization policy paper. Prepared VoIP technology memorandum in French. Liaison for Latin American National Committees and Paris Secretariat. Payson-Treat Cross-Cultural Fellow, Volunteers in Asia, Stanford, CA 11/XX - 9/XX Developed 2 week series of events on American Culture for visiting Japanese students. Traveled to Asia on cultural exchange. Intern, The Getty Center, Los Angeles, CA 6/XX - 8/XX Supported logistics operations at Museum and Grounds Department. Tour Guide, Stanford Visitor Information Services, Stanford, CA 9/XX - 6/XX Led public and private tours through Stanford University campus with emphasis on history, traditions and student life. Interpreter/Volunteer, Genesis Expeditions, Ensenada, México 6/XX - 6/XX Mediated relations between non-profit directors, orphanage officials, and construction managers.

 OTHER ACTIVITIES

SKILLS
-  Languages: Native Spanish speaker. Fluent in English, French. Conversational Portuguese. Technical: HTML and JavaScript, MS Office, working knowledge of PhotoShop. Interests: Extensive travel in Mexico, Asia, Europe and South America. Rock climber, scuba diver (NAUI certified)


=== Page 16 ===
 SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT RESUME

 Gui-Ping (Gwen) Zhou
-  659 Escondido Road, Apt. 16E • Stanford CA 94305 • (650) 555-5555 • istudent@stanford.edu

Objective
-  9/XX-6/XX Stanford University, Stanford, CA • M.S. Management Science and Engineering • Coursework: Strategies in Innovation, New Product Introduction, Technology and Society; Strategic Marketing (Winter Quarter) • GPA: 3.6/4.0 8/XX-5/XX Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, Switzerland Licence (M.S. degree), with Honors, Materials Science and Engineering • Coursework: Nanofabrication, Semiconductor Devices, MEMS, Renewable Energy • GPA: 9.2/10 Experience 6/XX-8/XX Technology Intern, National Solar Technology Institute, Beijing, China • Translated honors thesis from French to Mandarin. • Expanded assessment of technologies to include installation and operating costs specific to China and to meet varied forecasts of China’s expanding energy needs. • Co-authored report and executive summary for Ministry of Energy officials. 8/XX-5/XX Independent Researcher (Honors Thesis), Swiss Federal Institute of Technology), Zurich, Switzerland • Conducted extensive literature review to assess competing solar energy technologies. • Estimated and compared projected efficiency limits and cost per generated kilowatt-hour of photovoltaic and solar-thermal configurations. 6/XX-8/XX Research Assistant, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, Switzerland (summers) • Characterized electrical and optical properties of amorphous and polycrystalline silicon photovoltaic devices. • Automated test apparatus, reducing data collection time from 2 hours to 20 minutes. • Assisted fabrication of photovoltaic devices with 50-nm dimensions in a Class 10 nano-fabrication facility. • Became familiar with ion beam deposition and directional etching. • Helped empirically identify and document process parameters for depositing a new type of passivation layer. Leadership 8/XX-5/XX Founder/President, Chinese Students Association, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich, Switzerland • Founded organization to support Chinese students and to promote cultural awareness. • Surveyed students and university officials to assess the need for and to clarify the club’s mission. • Persuaded Dean of Student Life to allocate seed funding to launch the club.


=== Page 17 ===
 SAMPLE ENGINEERING RESUME

 Julia Eng-BachElor
-  563 Salvatierra Walk • Stanford, CA 94305 • (650) 723-0000 • SUId@stanford.edu

 oBJEctivE
-  To obtain a hands-on position developing and optimizing robots and automated production systems

 Education
-  expected 20xx Major GPA: 3.7/4.0 Cumulative GPA: 3.5/4.0
-  Stanford in Berlin, Germany – studied German language, history and culture Spring 20xx

 rElEvant coursEwork
-  Mechatronics Product Design

 coursE ProJEcts

 Integrated Compliant Arm-Wrist Robot

 Throw & Catch Robots

 ExPEriEncE
-  Engineering Intern, Siemens AG, Munich, Germany

 activitiEs
-  Social Chair, Sigma Delta Tau Sorority
-  Tour Guide, Stanford University

 skills
-  Design: SolidWorks Programming: Matlab, C/C++, Java, HTML Fabrication: CNC mill, lathe, brazing Languages: German (conversational)

ProfEssional affiliations
-  American Society of Mechanical Engineers • Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society • Society of Women Engineers


=== Page 18 ===
 SAMPLE ELECTRONIC RESUME
-  P.O. Box 12345 Stanford, CA 94309 650.497.1234 student@stanford.edu

 OBJECTIVE
-  Summer intern position focusing on software development

 EDUCATION

 Emailing Resumes
-  Stanford University, Stanford, CA Bachelor of Science, Computer Science, expected June 20XX Coursework: Java, C, LISP, programming paradigms and algorithms, databases, and artificial intelligence

 COMPUTER SKILLS
-  C, Java, LISP, Perl, VisualBASIC, Oracle, PL/SQL, ODL/OQL, XML, SQL/CLI, PSM, UNIX, Linux, HTML Web page design, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, Photoshop, GoLive, Illustrator, Acrobat, FileMakerPro, Lotus Notes Databases

 EXPERIENCE
-  Career Development Center, Stanford University, Stanford CA Computer Technician and Programmer, 10/20XX-present * Set up and maintain JSP server for connectivity to FileMakerPro databases * Help design and maintain center website
-  Adobe Systems, Adobe Solutions Network, San Jose, CA Database Intern, 6/20XX-9/20XX
-  * Redesigned and maintained related FileMakerPro, Lotus Notes, and Oracle databases with team of two engineers
-  City of Orange, Orange, CA Civil Engineering Intern, Summers 20XX-20XX * Assisted with organizing road design plans

 Resume Databases

HONORS/AWARDS
-  Bausch and Lomb Achievement Award National Society of Women Engineers Award
-  VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE Youth Science Center, Teacher’s Aide Campaign for Congress, Volunteer Campaign for City Council, Volunteer
-  ACTIVITIES and INTERESTS Society of Women Engineers Illustration, Writing Poetry


=== Page 19 ===
 SAMPLE REFERENCE LIST

REFERENCES FOR JOHN AVILA
-  Dr. Jan Smith Department of Biological Sciences Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305 650-555-3218 jans@stanford.edu Relationship: professor
-  Mr. Jerome Titan Senior Scientist Genentech 1204 Lloyd St. South San Francisco, CA 94080 650-555-2222 jtitan@genentech.com Relationship: past internship supervisor
-  Ms. Vanessa James Store Manager The Gap 1999 Main St. San Francisco, CA 94105 415-555-3333 Vanessa@thegap.com Relationship: past supervisor


=== Page 20 ===
 COVER LETTERS
-  The cover letter provides you with an opportunity to introduce yourself and state your objective, personalize your resume, and highlight information that addresses the needs and interests of the employer . Bear in mind that letters you write not only convey your interest and qualifications, but also give the employer an opportunity to observe your attentiveness to detail, spelling, grammar, and the overall quality of your written communication . Flaws in your letters will often be interpreted as flaws in your qualifications.
-  Address City, ST Zip Code Date
-  Name Title Company/Organization Name Address City, ST Zip Code
-  Dear Mr./Ms. Last Name:

 Opening Paragraph:
-  What is your intent in writing this letter? What position are you applying for and how did you learn about it? Briefly introduce yourself, your major, and the degree anticipated. If you are aware of a specific opening, refer to it. If you are not aware of a specific position, state your area of interest. This paragraph can also be used to refer to the individual who recommended that you contact the organization, or other factors that prompted you to write. If possible, convey why you are interested in the organization and anything you know about their product or service.

 Second Paragraph:
-  What are your qualifications? Why do you want to work for this organization? What would you enjoy doing for them? Sell yourself and be brief. Whet the employer’s appetite so that he/she will want to read your resume and schedule an interview.
-  Describe highlights from your background that would be of greatest interest to the organization. Focus on skills, activities, accomplishments, and past experience you can contribute to the organization and its work. If possible, demonstrate that you know something about the organization and industry/field. Use action verbs that describe relevant skills and expertise you can contribute. Mention specific knowledge you may have such as computer applications, foreign languages, lab techniques, writing and editing capabilities. You are attempting to create a match or “notion of fit” between the employer’s hiring needs and your interests, experience, and skills.

Third Paragraph:
-  What is your plan of action? Do you want to follow up with a phone call or do you want them to contact
-  Close your letter by stating that you would like to discuss employment opportunities or other information with the individual and that you will call to follow up on your letter. This demonstrates your initiative and follow-through and will help you maintain some control of your efforts.
-  Other points that can be made in the last paragraph:
-  Most importantly, remember to address the cover letter to a person. If you do not have a name, call the department or human resources to find out to whom your letter should be addressed. As a last resort, address your letter to the personnel manager, hiring manager, or recruiting representative.
-  Sincerely, Your First Name and Last Name


=== Page 21 ===
 TIPS FOR CREATING AN EFFECTIVE COVER LETTER

 COVER LETTERS ONLINE
-  More and more job seekers are asked to send their resumes and cover letters online . These letters are about half the length of a regular cover letter . It is important to mention in your letter how you found out about the position, what you are looking for, and what you have to offer . You might also mention a few key words the organization might want to hear . Most importantly, be succinct . Most experts recommend that you compose your cover letter off-line first before importing it into an outgoing email message .

 RESOURCES

Publications available at the Career Resource Center:


=== Page 22 ===
TYPES OF COVER LETTERS
-  SAMPLE #1 - Letter of Application in Response to a Job Listing (This letter accompanies a completed application form or may be used to respond to a specific job listing that requests a letter and resume, and possibly other documentation .)
-  P.O. Box 000033 Stanford, CA 94000
-  October 19, 20XX
-  Ms. Marian Armstone Human Resources Manager LEK Consulting 9999 Oak Street Palo Alto, CA 9003
-  Dear Ms. Armstone:
-  This letter and the attached resume serve as my application for the Associate position at LEK Consulting. After speaking with Jo Kimmer at Stanford’s Career Fair on October 9, I believe my skills, academic training, and work experience are a good fit for this position.
-  I will complete a Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in June 20XX. I have developed strong analytical and quantitative skills through coursework in technical, computer science, and economics courses. In addition, my hands-on experience in various internships and student leadership positions supports my qualifications as an Associate.
-  As an intern at General Motors this past summer, I developed analytical skills by taking measurements on a development vehicle identifying design problems, offering solutions for improvement, and making recommendations in a written report. I was awarded a General Motors scholarship for my exceptional contributions as a member of the S-10 Crew Cab launch team.
-  At Stanford, I demonstrated leadership ability by serving as the elected president for a service organization with over one hundred active members. In this effort, I honed my ability to make good decisions, plan and organize my time, work well on a team, and have developed sound interpersonal, oral, and written communications skills. Finally, I bring an entrepreneurial spirit and creativity to this position, as evidenced by my experience designing, patenting, and marketing my own product.
-  I would enjoy speaking with you further to discuss, in detail, how I am a match for the Associate position. I will follow up in two weeks to see if there is additional information you would like me to provide or answer questions you may have (another option: I am eager to apply my energy, experience, and enthusiasm to the work of LEK and look forward to hearing from you soon.).
-  Sincerely,


=== Page 23 ===
Andrea Abre
-  12345 First Street | Palo Alto, CA 94305 | 650.555.1234 | andreaabre@stanford.edu
-  Jonson Inc. 123 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10019
-  Dear Hiring Manager:
-  I am writing to apply for your summer intern position posted on JonsonInc.com. I have experience in fashion journalism through my work with the online magazine One Line to You and have a background in event planning through my work as a Marketing Intern this past summer. Currently, I am a junior at Stanford University studying Communication and International Relations and I plan to pursue a career in fashion upon graduation. Jonson would be a great springboard in achieving that goal.
-  My passion for fashion and art comes from my grandmother who was a fabric designer in New York during the 1940s and 50s. From her, I learned a great deal about color and design. Since the age of 10, I have been consumed by the industry and have studied Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar and Elle magazines. In addition, I analyze and examine the work of designers and follow fashion critics like Suzy Menkes. After beginning to write for the online magazine, One Line to You, I had the opportunity to parlay my depth of knowledge into written pieces about various aspects of the fashion world. My expression through this medium also allowed me to further my education of the industry.
-  I believe the marketing internship at the San Francisco Symphony best prepared me for the responsibilities of an intern at Jonson. In this position I was trusted with a great deal of responsibility. I wrote newsletters, researched artists to compile performance programs, helped with event planning, ran errands, composed press releases and edited and proof-read written material. Through these tasks I learned the importance of being thorough while working in a fast-paced environment. My attention to detail and organization allowed me to thrive in this context and they will do the same at Jonson.
-  After reviewing Jonson’s spring ready-to-wear collection, I feel it would be amazing to work toward the new creative director Heather London’s vision. It must be a very exciting time for the Jonson label.
-  I look forward to hearing from you in the near future and am available for an interview at your convenience. Please contact me with any questions you may have. Thank you for your time and consideration.


=== Page 24 ===

-  SAMPLE #3 - Letter Accompanying a Resume for an On-Campus Interview (While not always required, resumes submitted for campus interviews are often accompanied by cover letters . This letter provides you with an opportunity to demonstrate your knowledge of the organization, indicates why you are interested in the position, and highlights your background and experience as it applies to the position .)
-  January 10, 20XX
-  Director, Technical Administration Hillview Laboratories 22244 Stevens Creek Blvd. San Jose, CA 94000
-  Dear Mr. Boulton:
-  I appreciate the opportunity to meet with you this coming Thursday to discuss employment opportunities at Hillview Laboratories and to expand on my qualifications for the (title of position). I reviewed your website and literature at the Career Development Center (or Business School Library) and also spoke with Janet Morris, who works at Hillview. Her comments have given me a clearer idea of your R & D efforts and the work with which I might be involved. In particular, I am impressed by your state-of-the-art laboratories and how Hillview has effectively integrated a participatory management style in its total operation.
-  As my resume reflects, I have previous research experience in the area of... where I... (explain what you did). You will note my graduate work also directly relates to the type of work currently being done at Hillview (Or highlight previous summer experience, coursework, thesis topic, or special skills that may be relevant to this employer. DO highlight or expand on a relevant entry from your resume, but DO NOT simply repeat what is already on your resume.).
-  Thank you for your interest in my application and your willingness to come to Stanford University for interviews. I look forward to meeting you and discussing how my background and experience can contribute to your work.
-  Sincerely,


=== Page 25 ===
SAMPLE #4 - Letter as the Result of a Phone Conversation
-  P.O. Box 11335 Stanford, CA 94309
-  February 2, 20XX
-  Mr. Scott Campbell, Managing Editor Corpus Christi Caller-Times P.O. Box 9136 Corpus Christi, TX 78469-9136
-  Dear Mr. Campbell:
-  As a result of our phone conversation on January 31, I am sending you my resume as you requested. I have also taken the liberty of attaching a sample of my writing. I was encouraged to contact you after speaking with my high school journalism teacher, Mr. Bill Jenkins, who has ties with Ms. Sally Smith of your organization. As I mentioned in our discussion, I am currently a student at Stanford University and am very interested in journalism, advertising, and graphic design. I am seeking an opportunity to develop and utilize my skills and qualifications in a paid summer internship, doing whatever work possible. Growing up in Corpus Christi, the Caller-Times has always been part of my life. Now that I am older I have come to respect it as a professional service vital to our community, and am now eager to enlist and gain insight into the career I dream of holding.
-  My passion for journalism has only grown with time. As a Managing Editor of Hoofbeat, my high school’s national award-winning newspaper, I collaborated with fellow editors and managed a staff of nearly 30 younger writers as part of the overall process of overseeing production of the newspaper from conception to publication. As my resume indicates, I have demonstrated strong leadership and undergone extensive training through active participation in academic and professional organizations. In my effort to fully develop these important skills, I will continue to serve as a Layout Designer for The Stanford Scientific, the only full-color publication on campus for the duration of this academic year. I hope to gain the position of Head of Production in the years ahead.
-  In addition to my experience in journalism, my instruction includes coursework in statistics, psychology, and persuasive writing, and experience fielding phone calls and collecting data. My education has honed the writing, planning, organization, and presentation skills that I believe are essential to working in communications.
-  I am excited about the many aspects of the journalism world and welcome the prospect of discussing opportunities to explore them in your company. I will follow up in a week to answer questions you may have or provide additional information. In the meantime, should you have questions, I can be reached at 650-555-5555 or sjohnson@stanford.edu.
-  Thank you for your time and I look forward to hearing from you soon.
-  Sincerely,


=== Page 26 ===
 
-  SAMPLE #5 - Unsolicited or Broadcast Letter (Mailing unsolicited letters is another way to tap into the hidden job market . While the “letter campaign” is not the most effective strategy for every job seeker, unsolicited letters may work well for applicants with unique expertise in a given area or special technical skills, or for those who wish to work for small organizations in a specific capacity .)
-  P.O. Box 22445 Stanford, CA 94309
-  August 7, 20XX
-  Dr. John Allen, Associate Director INT Consulting Company 12396 Park Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 93032
-  Dear Dr. Allen:
-  Currently I am a student at Stanford University pursuing a BA degree in economics. I am very interested in business-related careers and am seeking opportunities to develop and utilize my skills and qualifications. I have researched your company and believe that your commitment to excellence and service is in alignment with my career goals and beliefs.
-  In addition to economics, my academic training includes extensive coursework in the sciences where I’ve developed very strong analytical, quantitative, and technical skills. Through my research, I have cultivated strong planning, organization, and presentation skills that I believe will be an asset in a business environment.
-  As an Investment Banker Summer Intern at Morgan Stanley, I collaborated with brokers to market online investing, consulted with prospective clients and networked through the internet and other computer software. As my resume indicates, I have demonstrated strong leadership and decision-making skills through active participation in campus organizations. In my effort to continue to develop these important skills, I will serve as a Head Academic Advisor this coming year, teaming with resident assistants and faculty members to plan educational and social programs for freshmen to help them plan their academics and adjust to campus life.
-  I am excited about the many facets of the business world and welcome the opportunity to discuss opportunities to explore in your company. I will follow up in a week to answer questions you may have or provide additional information. In the meantime, should you have questions, I can be reached at 650-600-0000 or mjohnson@ stanford.edu.
-  Thank you for your time and I look forward to hearing from you soon.
-  Sincerely,

Maria Johnson
-  Maria Johnson


=== Page 27 ===

-  SAMPLE #6 - Approach Letter or Networking Letter (Approach letters request information about an organization or industry . They are generally sent to specific contacts you may have obtained from a friend, the Stanford Alumni Network, a career fair representative or faculty member . Depending on your purpose, you may or may not want to send a resume with this type of letter .
-  P.O. Box 12345 Stanford, CA 94309 650-999-1212
-  February 10, 20XX
-  Ms. Laura Valencia Manager Creative Services Department Putnam, Blair and Associates 12 Front Street San Francisco, CA 94108
-  Dear Ms. Valencia:
-  This June, I will graduate with a B.A. degree in English from Stanford University. I have a strong interest in advertising and will soon seek a position as a Junior or Assistant Copywriter. Robert Blum encouraged me to contact you, suggesting that you might be willing to meet with me and provide an insider’s view of how I can best identify employment opportunities in this field.
-  It may be helpful for you to know that I completed a summer internship in the Marketing Department of a small high-tech company and have worked as the Advertising Manager at the Stanford Daily. I believe that both experiences are relevant to future work in advertising. I have strong writing and communication skills and enjoy working in a fast-paced environment. In addition, working throughout my Stanford career to finance a substantial portion of my education has strengthened my time management skills and determination to pursue and achieve my goals. These skills, together with my passion for photography, fascination with the consumer market, and personal interest in the creative side of advertising lead to my strong interest in this field.
-  I will be in touch with you by phone this week. At your convenience, I would like to set up a short 20-30 minute meeting with you at your worksite. Any advice or suggestions for my job search are welcomed.
-  I understand you are busy, and I appreciate your time.
-  Sincerely,
