
=== Page 1 ===
 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW OFFICE OF CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC

RESUME HANDBOOK 2015-2016
-  Boston University School of Law Office of Career Development and Public Service 765 Commonwealth Avenue, Room 902 Boston, MA 02215 617.353.3141 (phone) 617.353.2547 (fax) lawcdo@bu.edu http://www.bu.edu/law/careers


=== Page 2 ===

-  LEGAL RESUME ..........ccssscscscsssseeeeessseececssseeceeesseeeeesesseeeeeessnneeessseeeeseessneeesesseeecesesseeeeeeseseeeeeeeeneeeeeenes RESUME INTEGRITY ........sscccccsssrececssseeceescsseeeesessceeeeesssceeceessseeeeeeseneeecesesseeeeesssseeeseceueesessesaneeesesseeeeeeesseeeees REPRESENTATION OF GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA) AND CLASS RANK... REPRESENTATION OF HONORS AND AWARDS USE OF EXAMPLES IN THIS HANDBOOK... cscs ess eeseesseseesesseeseesesseeseeateateatesteateateaessessessesassseesesueescsnsssssnssessnsssensansensansensaneanentenens BEFORE YOU BEGIN .........sccssscsssscssssecsseessseesssccssscesssseeacesssseessscessseessseesscsassosessseseaseuessseasecesesesessousesoeeeass GUIDELINES ...........sccssscsssscssssessseesssceessseeesscesssseeacseessssessscesssesecseessssassesesssesesseeeesseesscesesesesseeeesseeeass RESUME CONTENT. ........sscssssccessccecsesssseesscesssssessscesssecasseessssessssessseueasseessssesscsessseeeesesesscsasesseessseeesoseesseeen HEADING... EDUCATION... EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS .... GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA) AND CLASS RANK .. HONORS AND ACTIVITIES JOINT DEGREES TRANSFER AND VISITING STUDENTS .. EXPERIENCE ......seeeseseseseeseeeeseeeeeeeees JUDICIAL INTERNSHIPS/EXTERNSHIPS. PRO BONO AND CLINICAL EXPERIENC LANGUAGES INTERESTS. LICENSES ... BAR STATUS... ” PUBLICATIONS ......cccssssesesesssesssssscscsesesssnsususseususssscsesesvaueseuesesesescacaveveuesessssasacasasasesesessssssasasacsusususesasssssacseseaaveueseasacatscseesaneueseseaeseaes FEDERAL RESUMES... SAMPLE RESUMES ..........cssssssccessseeceesssseecceessseeeeesssneeceesesaeeeessesseeeeessseeeseesseeeeeesssseeeeesseneeceeeeseeeeeeeseeeeeeeses SAMPLE 1L RESUMES...
-  SAMPLE 1L RESUMES... SAMPLE 2L RESUMES... ” SAMPLE 3L RESUMES........cssesseseesesessesessesessesesuesesucsesucsesucsesucsesusacsusaesusnessacsesncsesasesasaesucsesucsesussesuceeseseeseseeseeaseeensateneaeensaeeneneeeaeees 66


=== Page 3 ===
THE LEGAL RESUME
-  Your resume is perhaps the most important tool in marketing yourself to prospective employers. It offers a snapshot of your unique accomplishments and experiences. Employers typically spend less than one minute scanning a resume, so your resume must create a good impression at a glance. Your resume is also a sample of your written work. A well-written, well- formatted, professional-looking resume will reflect well on you.
-  If you are considering different practice areas or geographical locations, you may need more than one resume. Consider creating alternative resumes to reflect your interest in a particular specialty (e.g., real estate law), your ties to a geographic area, or your longstanding involvement with a particular organization. While your resume alone cannot get you a job, it is an indispensable part of the process for getting you an interview. The rest is up to you.
-  Before you begin, please carefully review the “Resume Integrity” section below, which includes information on BU Law’s Disciplinary Regulations as they relate to resume writing.


=== Page 4 ===
 RESUME INTEGRITY
-  The information you include on your resume must be completely accurate and truthful to the best of your knowledge. Willfully misrepresenting yourself on a resume is a serious matter which, when discovered, will most assuredly bar you from many employment opportunities. In addition, misrepresentation on a resume could lead to disciplinary action by the School of Law that, in turn, may prohibit you from being admitted to the bar. The CDO enforces the Disciplinary Regulations of BU Law. Article III of the School of Law's Disciplinary Regulations provides that:
-  [a]ny student who engages in unprofessional conduct with regard to any matter, whether or not related to the School of Law or to Boston University, may be subject to disciplinary action pursuant to these Regulations.
-  Article III also states that "[u]nprofessional conduct includes . . . (b) conduct that involves dishonesty, fraud, or deceit; or (c) conduct that violates the standards of professional ethics established for lawyers or otherwise adversely reflects on the fitness of the student for admission to the bar." Furthermore, the Disciplinary Rules of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts provide that "[i]t is professional misconduct for a lawyer to . . . engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation." Mass. R. Prof. C. 8.4(c).
-  Most students who misrepresent themselves on their resumes do so inadvertently by listing something as an honor that the School considers only an activity, or wording a description so as to take full credit for a project that was a joint effort or on which they only assisted. Unfortunately, there are also people who knowingly misrepresent themselves on their resumes (like rounding up their GPA) believing that no one will find out. As a deterrent to misrepresentation, please know that employers do verify students' credentials and CDO Advisors randomly spot-check student resumes for accuracy. If you are unsure how to represent something, contact a CDO Advisor.

Representation of Grade Point Average (GPA) and Class Rank
-  All truthful and verifiable grading information may be presented on a resume subject to the CDO’s policies outlined below. If you seek to represent your grades in any other fashion, you
-  If you choose to include your GPA on your resume, you must do so in the exact manner
-  Each year, the Registrar’s Office provides GPA cut-off points for the top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 of each 1L section, as well as a cut-off point for the top 5 students of each 1L section. Similarly, 2Ls and 3Ls are given the same GPA cut-offs by


=== Page 5 ===

-  year. The Registrar’s Office shows GPA cut-off points on its website, in addition to the cut-offs for various scholarly categories, which should be consulted for accurate and up-to-date information on GPA cut-off points for 1Ls, 2Ls, and 3Ls.
-  All GPAs extend to the hundredths place. Students must not round up their GPAs or attempt to approximate their standing by percentage if outside of the expressly defined GPA cut-off. You may, however, list your exact GPA and then provide the GPA for the nearest cut-off for context. And remember, BU Law grades are based on a 4.3 scale (not 4.0).
-  BU Law issues exact student rankings only to the top 5 students in each of the 1L sections, and to the top 15 students in the 2L class and in the 3L class (based on GPA for that year as well as based on cumulative GPA). These specific rankings may be included on your resume. Do not attempt to estimate your class rank based on your
-  For example: Rising 3Ls


=== Page 6 ===
 
-  *NOTE: The numbers used below are examples only and do not reflect actual grade
-  For example: First-Year Grades*:
-  NOTE: All comparative rank references relating to first-year grades must indicate that your rank is in relation to your section, not the entire class.
-  For example: Second-Year Grades*:
-  NOTE: Cumulative GPAs and rankings may be represented on your resume after the second year.
-  For example: Third-Year Grades*:
-  NOTE: Any 3L listing his or her GPA from first and second years must clearly denote the year to which each GPA relates.

Representation of Honors and Awards
-  The "Honors" category may only include BU Law journals, awards, and moot court and mock trial competitions for which you were selected based on merit. Thus, the following may be listed


=== Page 7 ===
 
-  NOTE: neither your participation in nor any form of recognition for Esdaile Moot Court Competition (First Year) may be listed as an "Honor" or “Activity,” other than Board Membership. Before listing a law school honor on your resume other than those indicated above, please consult with a CDO Advisor.

Use of Examples in This Handbook
-  Several sample resumes are included in this Handbook. These samples are provided to give you examples of effective resume drafting and styles. You should not copy job descriptions or other information verbatim from the Handbook. Copying job descriptions directly from the sample resumes arguably violates the School of Law’s Disciplinary Regulations and places students at a competitive disadvantage relative to other job applicants, because employers notice when two or more resumes from BU Law students contain exactly the same job descriptions.


=== Page 8 ===
BEFORE YOU BEGIN
-  Before you start your resume, you should ask yourself:
-  When you describe your experiences and accomplishments, emphasize:
-  On the other hand, you should leave out of your resume the following:


=== Page 10 ===
 BASIC GUIDELINES
-  The legal community is conservative and legal employers expect to see a traditional resume. Attempts to be creative and "get noticed" may leave a potential employer questioning your discretion and judgment. Keep it simple and clear, without fancy fonts, colors, borders, etc., and pay attention to the following guidelines.
-  Depending on the scope or focus of your career search, you may wish to create more than one resume. For example, the resume you submit to a public interest organization should include additional experiences important to those employers that a private law firm may not be as interested in seeing. Likewise, if you are looking for a job in more than one geographical area, you may want a different resume for each, with each resume tailored to highlight your connections to the area.
-  TIP: Resumes for positions with the federal government generally include more detail than a traditional legal resume and often follow a specific format. See the “Federal Resumes” section below for more information.

 Length
-  Employers typically spend less than a minute reviewing a resume, so it is crucial to be clear and concise. A law student’s resume generally should not be longer than one page unless the student’s relevant experiences and accomplishments warrant continuation onto a second page, such as, for instance, for someone who has been out of school for five or more years. If your resume continues onto a second page, it should fill at least half of the second page. Be sure to include your name and contact information on the top of the second page as well.
-  Even if you have 10 years or more of experience, resist the temptation to extend your resume to a third page. It is best to summarize your non-legal experience in a brief paragraph that
-  Of course, to every rule there is an exception. Resumes submitted for federal government jobs can cover several pages (see “Federal Resumes” section below). Many international employers also expect students’ resumes to exceed one page. Please make an appointment with a CDO Advisor if you have any questions about the length of your resume.
-  TIP: If you have published extensively, consider attaching a separate page entitled

Style
-  It is important to make your resume visually pleasing. Use bold letters, italics, varying font sizes (but not varying typefaces), underlines, or capital letters to emphasize certain parts of your


=== Page 11 ===
 
-  but do not go overboard. Some good resumes become hard to read because they are too “busy.”

 Formatting
-  Be consistent with formatting throughout your resume. For instance, if you bold and underline the names of the schools you attended in the "Education" section, do the same with the names of employers in the "Experience" section.
-  Be consistent within categories and abbreviations: if one position title is in italics, put all position titles in italics; if you use JD instead of Juris Doctor, use BA, MA, or PhD for your other degrees. Use italics for degree designations, such as magna cum laude.
-  Do not use full sentences (start with an action verb and omit personal pronouns and articles).
-  When e-mailing your resume and cover letter to employers, we recommend that you title both documents with your name and “resume” or “cover letter” (e.g., Jane Smith Resume) so that the attachments are clear to the recipient of the e-mail. We also recommend that you e-mail documents as PDFs to avoid the document changing when the recipient opens it.
-  We recommend using white or off-white (i.e., beige, ecru, cream, ivory, egg-shell) bond paper. Pastels, patterns, and bright colors are not well suited for professional correspondence. You can find wide selections of resume paper at CVS, Kinko’s, Staples, Office Depot, and similar stores, as well as online. It is best to use the same paper for your resume, cover letter, and reference page. However, it is appropriate to print your writing sample on copy paper.
-  Your resume should be laser printed with black ink. Documents printed on most types of ink- jet printers can bleed and look unprofessional. A matching envelope makes a professional statement. However, depending on your preference, you can also use an 8 ½ x 11 manila or white envelope. It is a good idea to use computer-printed labels for your mailings.

 Font
-  It is best to use an easy-to-read, businesslike font. Times New Roman, Book Antiqua, Century Schoolbook, Garamond, and Arial are all good choices. If possible, avoid Courier, which looks like a typewriter and wastes space. Script, ornate, decorative styles, or multiple fonts may make your resume hard to read.
-  Generally, resumes should be in 11- or 12-point font depending on the typeface. A font smaller than 10 points will make your resume illegible. While it may seem better to keep your resume to one page by using a smaller font, you do not want the hiring attorney to be forced to squint to read your resume.

Margins
-  Typically, a resume’s margins will be about 1 inch on the left and right and between 0.6 and 1.0 inches on the top and bottom. You need margins that are wide enough to eliminate a cramped


=== Page 12 ===
 
-  of space-filling. Strive for consistency and centering throughout your resume in terms of spacing within the text and the white space at the borders.

 Organization
-  List your education and experience in reverse chronological order, with your current or most recent degree or experience first. While you are in school, and for a few years after you graduate, your education should appear before your experience.

Additional Considerations for Resumes Uploaded to Symplicity


=== Page 13 ===
 
-  Your heading should include your relevant contact information, including your name, current address, e-mail, and telephone number. Think carefully before using a cell phone as your contact number. It is easy to be caught off guard or in a situation where you can’t speak. If you use voice mail, be sure that your outgoing message sounds professional and identifies you by your full business name (“Hi, this is Skip. Leave one,” may be confusing to people who are looking for Cameron Mitchell Tucker). We recommend checking your voicemail frequently. It is also a good idea to use a conservative e-mail address (coolchick@gmail.com is best left for your friends). A name-related e-mail address (e.g., hdunphy@gmail.com) is best.
-  If you think that it is difficult to identify your gender from your first name, you can add, “Ms.” or “Mr.” before your name. This will help employers when addressing correspondence.
-  TIP: You do not need to include the words “E-mail:” or “Phone:” before your e-mail address or phone number.

 JANE M. SMITH
-  1069 Beacon Street, Apartment 4
-  Brookline, MA 02446
-  (617) 264-9967
-  jmsmith@bu.edu

 JANE M. SMITH

 jmsmith@bu.edu
-  1069 Beacon Street, Apartment 4, Brookline, MA 02446 ∙ (617) 264 -9967

MR. SYDNEY M. SMITH


=== Page 14 ===
 
-  If you are looking for employment in your home city, you should indicate both your local and permanent address to show geographic ties to the area:

 JANE M. SMITH

 jmsmith@bu.edu
-  Local Address Permanent Address 1069 Beacon Street, Apt. 4 555 Oak Street Brookline, MA 02446 Naples, FL 32222

 Example 5

 JANE M. SMITH

 jmsmith@bu.edu
-  Local Address: 1069 Beacon Street, Apt. 4 • Brookline, MA 02446 • (617) 264-9967 Permanent Address: 555 Oak Street• Naples, FL 02446 • (321) 123-4567

Education
-  The “Education” section of your resume should list all post-secondary educational institutions in reverse chronological order starting with the most current. Thus, BU Law will be listed first on your resume. For each entry, include the name of the institution, its location (city, state/province, country), degree received (or anticipated), and the month and year in which you received it (or will receive it).
-  You should list non-degree granting institutions only if you believe that it will enhance your candidacy. For instance, you do not need to list the community college that you attended for two years, if you received your bachelor's degree from another institution. Similarly, if you transferred as an undergrad, you may list the first school, but only if it adds something that your degree-granting institution does not. In this latter case, you may want to use


=== Page 15 ===
 Example:

 Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
-  B.A. cum laude in Mathematics, May 2014
-  GPA: 3.74
-  Villanova University, Philadelphia, PA
-  Completed first two years of college
-  GPA: 3.96
-  NOTE: You should not include your high school information, with three possible

 Example 1

 EDUCATION

Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2018
-  Smith College, Northampton, MA
-  B.A. in English Language and Literature, May 2013
-  Example 2
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2018
-  Bachelor of Social Work, May 2015


=== Page 16 ===
 Example 3

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA J.D. expected, May 2018
-  University of West Florida, Pensacola, FL
-  Universitaet Bielefeld, Bielefeld, Germany
-  Studied German corporate regulation and European Union monetary and economic policy.

 Example 4
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2018
-  Boston University Questrom School of Business, Boston, MA
-  M.B.A. anticipated, May 2019
-  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL
-  B.S. in Biology, December 2014
-  EDUCATION
-  Boston University, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor, expected May 2018

 University of Oregon, Eugene, OR
-  Master of Arts in Teaching, May 2012
-  Pitzer College, Claremont, CA Bachelor of Arts in Government; Minor in Education, June 2011

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D., expected May 2017
-  LL.M. in Banking & Financial Law, expected May 2017

Tufts University, Medford, MA
-  B.A. cum laude in Economics/ B.A. in International Relations, February 2014


=== Page 17 ===
 Example 7

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D., expected May 2017

 Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA
-  University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN B.A. in English and Political Science, June 2014

• Grade Point Average (GPA) and Class Rank
-  NOTE: Please read the “Resume Integrity” section of this handbook before listing GPA, Class Rank, and Honors on your resume.
-  Employers vary in the importance they attach to your GPA. Generally, if your GPA is 3.0 or above you should consider including it. However, whether to include your GPA on your resume or not is, ultimately, up to you. Be aware that some employers may assume your grades are poor if you don’t include them. If you choose to include your GPA on your resume, you must do so in the exact manner presented by the Registrar's
-  Each year, the Registrar’s Office provides GPA cut-off points for the following:
-  Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 of each 1L section
-  Top 5 students of each 1L section
-  Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (based on fall cumulative average (i.e., three semesters))
-  Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (based on two-year cumulative average) Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (based on second year average only)


=== Page 18 ===

-  Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (based on fall cumulative average (i.e., five semesters))
-  Top 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (based on third year average only)
-  Top 1% (summa cum laude), 5%, 10% (magna cum laude), 15%, 20%, 25%, and top 1/3 (cum laude) (based on three-year cumulative average)
-  Top 15 students (based on third year average only)
-  NOTE: The top 1% represents the cut-off point for those eligible for summa cum laude, but the faculty is not obliged to award such an honor. Therefore, students may not represent that a GPA close to the top 1% is a GPA close to summa cum laude; rather, such students may only represent that their GPA is close to the top 1% of the class.
-  All GPAs extend to the hundredths place (e.g., 3.15). Students must not round up their GPAs or attempt to approximate their standing by percentage if outside the expressly defined GPA cut-off. You may, however, list your exact GPA and then provide the GPA for the top 10%, 25% or 33.3% for context. Remember that BU Law grades are based on a 4.3 scale (not 4.0). You may also choose to include your class rank on your resume if you receive an exact rank from the Registrar. If so, list your exact GPA and then provide your class rank in parentheses. For example, if your GPA is 3.83 and your class rank is 5th out of 220 students, then you can list your GPA as “3.83 (rank: 5/220).”
-  While grades are a consideration for many employers, very few use them as a strict screening tool. The following are very general considerations on employers’ views about grades and may not be true in all instances. It is very important for you to research all


=== Page 19 ===
 
-  as a demonstrated interest in a specific practice area or commitment to public service, unique law-related experience, or prior employment.

 Example 1 (1L)

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA J.D. anticipated, May 2018 GPA: 3.95 (Section Rank: 3/75)
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2018

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. expected, May 2018
-  GPA: 3.46 (3.48 GPA = Top 33% of First-Year Section)

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2017

EDUCATION:
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2017


=== Page 20 ===
 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  GPA: 3.56 (3.58 GPA = Top 33% of Class); 3.86 (Top 10% of Second-Year Class)

• Honors and Activities
-  Using subheadings under each educational institution, list “Honors” and/or “Awards” under the school to which they relate. Please note that Latin honors (i.e., cum laude, magna cum laude, summa cum laude) are not capitalized and should be italicized. If you have undergraduate honors that are likely to be unfamiliar to those outside the school community, you may want to include a parenthetical explaining the honor (e.g., awarded to three students for exceptional leadership or awarded to top student in major, etc.).
-  If you have numerous honors or activities, try to be selective and include only those that are most prestigious or most relevant for the employers. Please note that you may list as BU Law honors only those designated as such by the Law School Faculty Committee (please refer to the “Resume Integrity” section in this handbook).
-  In determining what activities you want to include in your resume, there may be additional considerations. For example, if you are an LGBT student involved in OutLaw, keep in mind that including your involvement in OutLaw on your resume is going to “out” you to your prospective employer. Whether or not you want to do this is, of course, a personal choice. Involvement in the American Constitution Society or the Federalist Society may be viewed negatively by prospective employers with beliefs that are different from those of those organizations. Similarly, including involvement in religious student groups is a personal decision. Mentioning your involvement in any of these or similar groups could just as easily enhance your candidacy, so you should weigh the pros and cons and decide from there. Many students ultimately decide they would not want to work for an employer who would hold their involvement in a particular group against them. We mention these issues only so you can make an informed decision about what to include. If you have questions about


=== Page 21 ===
 Example 1

 EDUCATION
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2016

 Case Western Reserve University
-  B.A. in English Language and Literature, May 2011
-  Activities: Dormitory President; Rugby player; Radio DJ (WRUW-FM)

 Oxford University Summer Seminar, Trinity College
-  Oxford, England
-  Focus of study: British literature, Summer 2009

 Example 2

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA J.D. anticipated, May 2017 GPA: 3.39 Activities: 2015 Boston University Business Plan Competition, Participant Intellectual Property Law Society, Member

 Example 3
-  EDUCATION
-  Pace University, New York, NY Master of Science in Teaching, May 2013

State University of New York at Albany, Albany, NY


=== Page 22 ===
 Example 4

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D., expected May 2017
-  Honors: Public Interest Law Journal, Stone Moot Court

 Boston University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Boston, MA
-  M.A. in Philosophy, expected May 2017

 Clark University, Worcester, MA
-  B.A. cum laude in Economics/ B.A. in International Relations, February 2013 Honors: University College of Citizenship and Public Service Grant Recipient

 • Joint Degrees
-  If you are pursuing a joint degree, you may list your joint degree under either one or two entries depending on whether you receive a combined or separate GPA for each course of

 Example 1 (Combined GPA)

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. and M.B.A., expected May 2018

 Example 2 (Separate GPA)

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  GPA: 3.40/4.3

Boston University Questrom School of Business, Boston, MA
-  Master of Business Administration, expected May 2018
-  Transfer and visiting students may list both the institution attended and the degree- granting one as in the examples below. Once you graduate, however, you need not list the school from which you transferred. You may wish to do so to show your stand-out performance, such as being at or near the top of your class at your previous law school.


=== Page 23 ===
 Example 1 (Transfer student)
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  University of Florida Levin College of Law, Gainesville, FL Attended, 2014-2015 GPA: 3.7 (top 10% of section) Honors: Invitation to the Florida Law Review
-  Example 2 (Visiting student)
-  EDUCATION
-  BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, BOSTON, MA Juris Doctor, expected May 2016 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, NEW YORK, NY Attended, 2015-2016

Experience
-  As with your “Education,” you should list your experience in reverse chronological order. Describe current positions in the present tense and prior positions in the past tense. It is appropriate to list both legal and non-legal positions, regardless of whether you were paid. If the experience is relevant to the type(s) of jobs in which you are interested, include it on your resume. You can also use your "Experience" section to describe law school clinics, pro bono service trips, community activities, educational internships, and, if applicable, military status.
-  Write the employer's name and location on the first line and your official job title and dates of employment on the second. Next, provide a brief description of the substantive work you performed. Highlight your accomplishments as well as transferable skills (oral and written communication, negotiation, organization and management of complex projects, research and analysis). When truthful and appropriate, use adjectives and adverbs, e.g., "successfully," to advocate for yourself.
-  This is perhaps the most important part of your sales pitch, and you want to make sure that with every description you include, you say what exactly you did (using “action verbs” from the
-  Be concise, starting each sentence with an action verb, and feel free to omit “a” and “the” in most cases. E.g., “Drafted memorandum” is better than “Drafted a memorandum.” Avoid


=== Page 24 ===
 
-  in prospective employers a greater degree of confidence in your ability. However, you should never reveal the name of any client or the specific nature of a case or deal that would constitute privileged attorney-client communications. Instead of using names, you can use wording such as, “multi-million dollar litigation,” “antitrust investigation involving multi-national company” or “high-profile acquisition of family-owned business.”
-  If you are applying for public interest employment, you should describe community activities and involvement that demonstrate long-term commitment to public service. You can list participation in the BU Law pro bono spring break service trips as “Experience” (see Example 2, below).
-  The “Before” and “After” job descriptions below give you an example of how to instill life and personality into your resume.

 Before:

 DEWEY CHEATHAM LLP, Boston, MA
-  Law clerk, summer 2015
-  Performed research on case law and drafted memoranda in a variety of matters. Attended client meetings.

 After:

 DEWEY CHEATHAM LLP, Boston, MA
-  Law clerk, summer 2015
-  Worked closely with partners of international law firm specializing in mergers and acquisitions and real estate finance. Performed extensive research and drafted memoranda on a variety of complex substantive and procedural matters, including legitimacy of freezing order in a multi-national shareholder dispute. Independently drafted partnership agreement related to acquisition of low-income housing project by syndicate of investors.
-  TIP: PROOFREAD, PROOFREAD, PROOFREAD. The CDO will point out spelling mistakes and typos as they see them, but it is YOUR responsibility to make sure that your resume is 100% error-free.

 Words often misspelled:
-  Appellate; committed/commitment; constitutional; criterion (pl. criteria); alumnus (pl. alumni); alumna (pl. alumnae); cum laude; memorandum (pl. memoranda); judgment;

Words often misused:
-  Juris Doctor (not Doctorate); affect/effect; capital/capitol; complement/compliment; council/counsel; oriented (not orientated); perspective/prospective; principal/principle; advice/advise.


=== Page 25 ===

-  Examples of action verbs (remember to use appropriate verb tense):
-  conducted exhibited marketed consolidated expanded mastered constructed expedited measured consulted explained mediated contacted facilitated modeled continued financed modified contracted focused monitored controlled forecasted motivated convened formed named conveyed formulated negotiated coordinated fostered observed corresponded founded obtained counseled functioned operated created generated ordered crafted governed organized critiqued grouped originated decided guided outlined defined handled oversaw delegated headed participated delivered helped perceived demonstrated identified performed derived illustrated persuaded designed implemented pinpointed detailed improved planned detected increased prepared determined influenced presented developed informed presided devised initiated produced directed innovated programmed discovered installed proposed distributed instituted protected drafted instructed provided drew up interpreted publicized earned interviewed questioned edited introduced raised educated invented recommended elicited investigated recorded eliminated judged reduced encouraged launched reinforced engineered lectured rendered researched resolved responded restored retained retrieved revamped reviewed revised rewrote routed scheduled searched selected served set up shaped simplified solicited solved specified spoke stimulated strategized structured studied suggested supervised supported targeted taught trained translated updated utilized won


=== Page 26 ===
 
-  Examples of functional job descriptions by skills:

 Research

 Writing

 Trial preparation & participation

 Analytical Skills

Negotiation


=== Page 27 ===
 Consultation

 Trial Experience

 Case Management

 Example 1
-  EXPERIENCE

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA Research Assistant for Prof. Tracey Maclin
-  May – August 2015

 Boston University, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, Boston, MA Assistant Director
-  September 2012 – July 2014

AmeriCorps, City Year Boston, Boston, MA Service Leader/Recruiter
-  October 2010 – April 2012


=== Page 28 ===
 Example 2

 EXPERIENCE

 PINE TREE LEGAL ASSISTANCE, PORTLAND, ME
-  Pro Bono Volunteer, Boston University Spring Break Trip March 2015 Researched revenge porn and contemporary laws. Researched Maine secondary school open-enrollment regulations. Communicated with other legal service organizations to better understand special circumstance immigrant eligibility.

 CENTER FOR REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS, New York, NY
-  Summer Associate, Domestic Legal Program
-  Summer 2014
-  Provided legal research and writing in support of litigation, including motions and memoranda on preemption, standing, advance directives, and protective orders; cite-checked appellate and amicus briefs and policy publications; contacted and obtained statements from potential clients.

 MASSACHUSETTS COALITION FOR HEALTHY COMMUNITIES, Lexington, MA
-  Rappaport Fellow in Law & Public Policy
-  Summer 2013
-  Researched and wrote policy paper on the impact of state appropriations on teen pregnancy prevention and related programs in Massachusetts; facilitated strategic partnerships with other local advocacy organizations.

 Example 3

 EXPERIENCE

Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General, Trial Division
-  Legal Intern
-  Supported Assistant Attorneys General in defending the Commonwealth in civil cases, particularly in personal injury and employment actions. Researched and wrote motions, pleadings, memoranda, interrogatories, and settlement letters. Wrote Motion to Dismiss that motivated plaintiff to drop suit. Observed depositions, hearings, and one five-day trial.
-  London, England November 2012 to July 2014
-  Wrote and edited informational fundraising leaflets for supporters. Managed and expanded media relations program. Drafted and distributed news releases to national, regional and local media. Developed ongoing e-newsletter for supporters. Oversaw maintenance of website content; wrote and edited text for web pages.
-  Washington, DC
-  Co-founded nonprofit organization that aims to pass U.S. constitutional amendment granting congressional voting representation for Washington, DC. Collaborated in drafting mission, bylaws and logo and participated in incorporation process. Built alliances with local organizations, fundraised, and developed educational materials.
-  Planned and organized rallies and awareness-raising events for nonprofit organization working to secure voting representation for Washington, DC. Trained and coordinated volunteers. Edited quarterly newsletter and educational materials. Lobbied Congressional offices and staffed informational tables.


=== Page 29 ===
 Example 4

 EXPERIENCE

 Boston University School of Law American Legislative Practice Clinic, Boston, MA Student Attorney, Fall 2015

 Dewey Square Group, Washington, DC
-  Summer Fellow, May – July 2015

 State Street Corporation, Boston, MA
-  Senior Auditor, May 2013 – August 2014
-  Auditor, September 2011 – May 2013

• Judicial Internships/Externships
-  Judicial internships and externships can be listed in one of two ways: (1) naming the court as the employer and mentioning the judge in the job title; or (2) naming the judge as the employer. Your decision about listing the court or the judge first will depend on the court, the name recognition of the judge and the types of employment you are considering. Please note that, in general, an “intern” works with a judge or in a court during the summer, while an “extern” is that same position during the school year and is usually for academic credit. “Law


=== Page 30 ===
 Example 1

 THE HONORABLE NANCY TORRESEN, UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF MAINE, Bangor, ME Judicial Intern, Summer 2015

 Example 2

 Massachusetts Superior Court, New Bedford, MA
-  Judicial Intern, June 2015 to August 2015

 Example 3 (federal externship)

 THE HONORABLE JUAN TORRUELLA, UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT, Boston, MA Judicial Extern – Fall 2015
-  Wrote bench memoranda, reviewed staff attorney memoranda, and drafted opinions.

 • Pro Bono and Clinical Experience
-  BU Law offers many programs that enable you to gain valuable practical experience while giving back to the community, including pro bono service trips during spring break and clinical programs during the school year. You can list your participation in these activities as (a) “Experience,” (b) in a “Pro Bono” section under “Education,” or (c) in a “Pro Bono” section after “Experience.” The clinics and the pro bono service trips, as well as any pro bono work you undertake independently, can help you demonstrate legal experience and commitment to public interest. Please note that if you do pro bono work as part of a project hosted or sponsored by a law firm, check with your supervisor at the firm to see how they would prefer

 Example 1

 NEW JERSEY INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE, Newark, NJ
-  Spring Break Pro Bono Intern, March 2014

 Example 2

Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. Anticipated, May 2017
-  Activities: Legal Follies; Federalist Society
-  Pro Bono: Pine Tree Legal Assistance, Portland, ME (2015 BU Spring Break Pro Bono Service Trip)


=== Page 31 ===
 Example 3

 PRO BONO EXPERIENCE

 Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD), Boston, MA
-  Pro Bono Volunteer for GLAD Answers, September 2015-present

 Massachusetts Historical Commission, Boston, MA
-  Pro Bono Volunteer, February 2015-April 2015

 American Civil Liberties Union-Massachusetts, Boston, MA
-  Pro Bono Volunteer, March 2015-April 2015

 Women’s Bar Association, Boston, MA
-  Pro Bono Volunteer for Family Law Project for Battered Women, October 2014-January 2015

 Example 4

 Boston University School of Law International Human Rights Clinic, Boston, MA
-  Student Attorney, September 2015-May 2016
-  Filing asylum claim for an Afghan refugee. Working on team to research, conduct interviews, and write a report on status of Afghans in India.

 Example 5

 Boston University School of Law Criminal Law Clinic, Boston, MA

Languages
-  If you speak languages besides English, you should list them under a separate heading. You do not need to be fluent to mention your training in another language, but you should be accurate in the way you describe your oral and written language abilities. An employer could put your language skills to the test during an interview. You may choose to include your language skills under an “Interests” section as opposed to a separate “Languages” section.
-  Examples:


=== Page 32 ===
 
-  Including an “Interests” section is optional but recommended. You should use this section to show that you are a well-rounded and interesting person. It can also serve as a good conversation starter and, on occasion, enable you to make a connection with your interviewer. You can list community involvement, travel experiences, languages, and business skills. However, you do not need to record those abilities the employer will take for granted, like computer and online research skills. Listing your experience with specific software is unnecessary (unless specifically relevant to a job description). Also, avoid making very general statements, such as "enjoy sports and reading." There are many options for the title of this section as noted in the examples below.
-  Remember that the purpose of an “Interests” section is to create another way to connect to an employer. Different types of employers view these sections differently, so we suggest consulting a CDO Advisor about whether to include this section and what to include in it.

 Example 1

 INTERESTS
-  Fluent in French; largely financed undergraduate education by working up to 40 hours/week; worked as a security guard over summer and winter vacations; interests include fly-fishing and folk music.

 Example 2

 LANGUAGE SKILLS AND INTERESTS
-  Proficient in Chinese (Mandarin and Cantonese); enjoy salsa dancing and playing the violin

 Example 3

 INTERESTS

Other Examples of Interests:


=== Page 33 ===
 
-  If relevant to the job that you are applying for, you may list professional licenses and certificates, such as Rule 3:03 Certification to Practice under Supervision, RN, Certified Financial Planner, Professional Engineer, CPA, or Real Estate Broker (for instance, if you are applying for a tax associate position with one of the Big Four accounting firms, you would want to include your CPA). List legal and non-legal affiliations, including name of organization and state of issuance.

 Example
-  Certified Public Accountant, Certificate Number 12345, October 2011

 Bar Status
-  After graduation, we recommend including a “Bar Status” section. You may also want to include this section during your 3L year if you are planning to take the bar in the state to which you want to relocate in order to show your commitment to that particular location. There are several places on your resume where you may appropriately place this section: at the top, before or after the “Education” section, or at the very end. List when and where you were admitted to practice law or when and where you intend to sit for the bar examination.

 Example 1

 BAR STATUS
-  Sitting for California Bar Examination, February 2016

 Example 2

 BAR ADMISSION
-  Sat for the Massachusetts Bar Examination, July 2015; awaiting results

Example 3
-  Passed July 2015 Massachusetts and New York Bar Exams, awaiting admission
-  Example 4
-  Admitted to practice in Massachusetts, December 2014


=== Page 34 ===
 Publications
-  It is important to list any legal writing that you have published. You may include this under a separate heading called “Publications” or in your “Education” section.
-  Published work provides evidence of your writing and scholarly abilities and it may make you more attractive to employers. Remember that if you refer to your written work in your resume, you may be expected to discuss its substance during an interview. If your list of publications is quite long, you may consider listing them in an attached page. You should include all published work, not only legal publications. All publications should be listed in Bluebook format.

 Example 1

 ACADEMIC PUBLICATIONS
-  Jane Smith, Against Rising Tides: Global Climate Change and the Alliance of Small Island States, 10 HEMISPHERES: TUFTS U. J. INT’L AFF. 244 (2014).

 Example 2
-  PUBLICATIONS: Theresa Matthews, Number of Controversies Decline as Schools Adopt Conservative Policies, 30 SIECUS REPORT 4 (Aug./Sept. 2012); Theresa Matthews, What Abstinence-Only-Until-Marriage Education Looks Like in Communities Today 28 SIECUS REPORT 24 (Aug./Sept. 2011)

A Final Word – Proofread, Proofread, Proofread
-  It is extremely important to review your draft resume for accuracy and clarity and for grammatical, typographical, spelling, and formatting errors. Be especially aware of verb tense errors; descriptions of positions you no longer hold or activities in which you no longer participate should be described in the past tense, while ongoing projects should be described in the present tense (with verbs ending in “- ing”). In a profession that demands precision, errors are unacceptable and employers will often discard a resume with even one error. Spelling and grammatical errors also reflect poorly on your language skills. Before you finalize your resume, have others review your resume as well. Consult the CDO, an alum, another attorney or a fellow student. Consider any advice and then decide whether you are comfortable incorporating comments into your resume.
-  NOTE: Although your CDO Advisor will certainly note a typo or mistake if he or she sees it, CDO Advisors do not proofread.


=== Page 35 ===
 FEDERAL RESUMES
-  Federal resumes can include significantly more detail than your traditional law resume and often follow a specific format, which may vary by agency.

 Tips for Creating a Successful Resume
-  REMEMBER: Be clear and concise. Avoid acronyms.

 Resume Resources on USAJobs
-  https://help.usajobs.gov/index.php/Most_Effective_Resumes https://www.usajobs.gov/Content/pdfs/Tutorials-Resume.pdf

Sample Federal Resume
-  The following resume includes a range of categories that may be expected for a government application. However, some agencies may not require you to include all of the information provided and in those cases you would simply follow the above “tips” and add detail to your standard resume. Just always remember to follow the specific job vacancy instructions to see what is required when creating a federal resume.


=== Page 36 ===
 JANE DOE
-  500 Harvard Street, Apt. 2D, Brookline, MA 02446 JDoe987654@bu.edu (617) 987-6543

 JOB INFORMATION
-  Attorney, GS-0905-11
-  Department of Homeland Security U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Office of the Associate Chief Counsel
-  Vacancy Announcement No.: 10A – 97

 PERSONAL INFORMATION
-  Social Security Number: Country of Citizenship: U.S.A. Veteran's Preference: N/A Highest Federal Civilian Grade held: N/A

 EDUCATION
-  J.D. expected May 2016, GPA 3.38* Note Editor, Public Interest Law Journal, 2014-2015 Academic Publications: 500 (2014) Public Interest Project, Vice President, Fall 2014 Stone Moot Court Competition, Participant, Fall 2013 New Orleans Legal Services Spring Break Trip, Spring 2013

University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292
-  B.A. International Studies & Anthropology, May 2012, GPA 3.74 Dean’s List, University of Louisville, 2009-2012 Study Abroad: St. Lawrence University Kenya Semester Program, Nairobi, Kenya August 2010 - December 2010, 12 Semester Credits Earned
-  * If job requires listing the GPA scale, remember that BU Law’s GPAs are out of 4.3 (e.g., 3.41/4.3)


=== Page 37 ===
 JANE DOE

EXPERIENCE
-  Salary: N/A Tel.: (617) 722-7000
-  Evaluated curriculum policy and funding mechanisms of Massachusetts’s education system and proposed legislation filed in January 2015 to implement improvements. Analyzed proposed constitutional amendments in preparation for Constitutional Convention.
-  June 2014 – August 2014 Tel.: (617) 777-7777
-  Drafted sentencing memoranda for the Court. Worked with Assistant U.S. Attorneys to formulate presentations for sentencing hearings. Prepared reply to motion for time extension on restitution order. Researched and wrote legal memoranda on insider trading, money laundering, and sentencing.
-  Oggles and Eagens, LLC, 123 South Street, Suite 202, Boston, MA 02216 Salary: $3,000/week Tel.: (617) 243-4321
-  Independently drafted partnership agreement related to acquisition of low income housing project by syndicate of investors. Assisted partners of international law firm specializing in mergers and acquisitions and real estate finance by conducting due diligence review in preparation for closing. Performed extensive legal research and drafted memoranda on variety of complex substantive procedural matters.
-  The Consortium, Phanat Nikhom Refugee Processing Center, P.O. Box 17, Cholburi, Thailand 20140 May 2012 - August 2012 Salary: $320/month
-  Taught Indochinese refugees English language, cultural orientation, and work skills in preparation for U.S. resettlement. Provided weekly curriculum reviews and training to teachers and teacher aides. Selected, trained, and managed 150 refugee workers in vocational training workshops. Developed and conducted English language-based cooking, guitar, arts and crafts, singing, and sport programs for students, ages 11-19, at the recreational facility.


=== Page 38 ===
 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP
-  Association for International Law, Student Division Boston Bar Association

 LANGUAGE SKILLS
-  Conversational Thai and Spanish

 OTHER INTERESTS
-  Painting and drawing portraits Running marathons

JANE DOE


=== Page 40 ===
 NAME

 Address Telephone Number Email
-  [or]
-  Current Address

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, Date (month and year) GPA: Honors: Activities: Pro Bono: (if applicable)
-  GPA:

 UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL, City, State
-  Degree Awarded, Date (month and year) GPA or GPA in Major: (optional) Honors: Activities: Thesis: (if applicable) Study Abroad: (if applicable)
-  EXPERIENCE (Listed in reverse chronological order)

 EMPLOYER, City, State
-  Position Title, Dates Description of Job

SAMPLE RESUME
-  OUTLINE
-  Permanent Address


=== Page 41 ===
 
-  The following shows a before and after version of a resume. The first version is an example of what not to do.

 OLGA O’CONNOR

 1434 Beacon Street

 Brookline, MA 02446

 617/738-1234
-  OBJECTIVE: To obtain a challenging summer position in a dynamic legal environment that allows me to utilize my strong analytical, communication, and research skills.

 EMPLOYMENT:
-  Alford Lake Camp, Hope, Maine Responsible for overseeing the safety and welfare of cabin of 12 campers, ages 12-13. Supervised staff of 20 counselors.
-  Summer 2009 Bartender/Waitperson
-  The Thirsty Pig, Portland, Maine
-  Took orders and served food. Mixed and served drinks. Helped to tally the evening’s receipts and made bank deposits.
-  September 2016 Receptionist/Secretary
-  to August 2012 Fennemore Craig, Scottsdale, AZ
-  Office communications and deliveries. Assisted paralegals in research and daily activities. Worked on documents and made appointments for attorneys. Learned word processing.
-  June 2013 Volunteer Counselor/Legal Advisor
-  to August 2013 Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Phoenix
-  Worked part-time as a volunteer for this organization in conjunction with the Arizona State University Battered Women’s Advocacy Program. Intake interviews. Also, did legal counseling and guidance at several community crisis shelters.
-  Summer 2014 Legal Assistant
-  Responsible for the preparation of literature providing legal advice and Information to victims of domestic violence. Research legal issues.

 EDUCATION:
-  9/14 – Present BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW Candidate for Juris Doctorate LSAT Score: 163

BEFORE


=== Page 42 ===
 
-  Bachelor of Arts G.P.A.: 3.58 Majors: Political Science, French University of Paris – The Sorbonne, Paris, France Summer 2009 – Certificate of French Language and Civilization

 HONORS/ACTIVITIES:
-  Phi Alpha Delta Legal Fraternity International Law Society Battered Women’s Advocacy Project Graduate Magna Cum Laude Graduate of the Honors College East Valley Partnership Scholarship Award Golden Key National Honor Society Phi Kappa Phi National Honor Society

 PERSONAL:
-  Date of Birth: October 21, 1992; Height: 5’4”; Weight: 130 lbs; Health: Fair; Marital Status: Single Enjoy Reading, Sports, Movies

References are available upon request


=== Page 43 ===
 OLGA O’CONNOR
-  1434 Beacon Street Brookline, MA 02446 (617) 738-1234 oconnor@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2016 G.P.A.: 3.31 Activities: Environmental Law Society Student Advocates for Ending Domestic Violence

 Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ
-  Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, in Political Science and French, May 2014

 University of Paris – The Sorbonne, Paris, France
-  Certificate of French Language and Civilization, Summer 2010

 EXPERIENCE

 Community Legal Services, Phoenix, AZ
-  Legal Assistant, Summers 2014 and 2015
-  Prepared literature providing legal advice and information to victims of domestic violence. Researched legal issues related to unemployment compensation.

 Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Phoenix, AZ

 Volunteer Counselor/Legal Advisor, Summer 2013
-  Provided legal counseling and guidance to victims of domestic violence at several community crisis shelters in conjunction with the Arizona State University Battered Women’s Advocacy Program. Conducted intake interviews with prospective clients.

 Fennemore Craig, Scottsdale, AZ
-  Receptionist/Secretary, September 2010 to August 2012
-  Assisted paralegals with legal research and daily activities. Coordinated all office communications and deliveries. Prepared documents and scheduled appointments for attorneys.

 INTERESTS
-  Enjoy classic French cooking, French and British novels, and ballet.

AFTER


=== Page 45 ===
 
-  Sample 1L Resume No prior work experience off campus as undergraduate

 Jennifer Lee

 Current Address:
-  88 Beacon Street Apt. 4 Brookline, MA 02445 (612) 555-2490
-  Permanent Address: 26 Abby Lane (715) 555-3259

 EDUCATION:

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. expected, May 2018

 Macalester College, St. Paul, MN
-  B.A., magna cum laude, in Economics and Psychology, May 2015
-  Psi Chi, the National Honor Society in Psychology

 EXPERIENCE:

 Macalester College Economics Department Search Committee, St. Paul, MN
-  Student Representative, Fall 2014-Spring 2015

 Macalester College Library Computer Lab, St. Paul, MN
-  Lab Consultant/Student Manager, Summer 2013-Spring 2012

 Macalester College Psychology Department, St. Paul, MN
-  Teaching Assistant – Research Methodology and Statistics, Spring 2013

 Macalester College Psychology Department, St. Paul, MN
-  Research Assistant, Fall 2012-Spring 2013

LANGUAGE SKILLS:
-  Working knowledge of Spanish


=== Page 46 ===
 Ryan Rizzo

 22 Bay Street, Apartment 2R • Cambridge, MA 02139 (315) 555-7003 • rrizzo@bu.edu

 EDUCATION:

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. expected, May 2018

 Bowdoin College, Brunswick, ME
-  Treasurer and Pledge Director, Quinby Social House

 EXPERIENCE:

 MMC Recordings, Reading, MA
-  Assistant Manager, October 2014 – August 2015
-  Prepared and organized scores and sheet-music for composer William Thomas McKinley. Devised and implemented audio and sheet-music database systems. Facilitated artist and repertoire decisions. Organized CD booklet and corresponded with clients. Developed and tested CD sales models. Supervised domestic and international CD sales.

 Orange County Sheetmetal, Newburgh, NY
-  Foreman, HVAC Mechanic, June 2014 – September 2014
-  Directed a team of mechanics installing Energy Star HVAC systems in energy efficient residential and commercial buildings. Managed daily and long-term work schedules. Coordinated communication between site supervisors, subcontractors, and the company owner.

 Sagadahoc County Wood Restoration, Bath, ME
-  Co-Founder, Owner and Operator, May 2013 – June 2014
-  Founded and managed a painting and power-washing company. Developed and executed advertising, marketing, and sales strategies. Administered accounts and corresponded with clients. Established and implemented schedules. Supervised job performance of staff of 10.

 Syracuse University School of Social Work, Syracuse, NY
-  Research Assistant, May 2012 – August 2012
-  Conducted research for an evaluation of a federally-funded KinNET (children in the care of a relative) program. Generated and maintained databases. Formulated surveys and templates and performed data analysis. Interpreted and evaluated source materials and prepared briefs for evaluating professors and program coordinators. Participated in national KinNET conference.

INTERESTS:
-  Composing music, playing guitar, alpine skiing, baseball, and my Labrador Retriever-mix, Amos


=== Page 47 ===
 Sample 1L Resume
-  Dual-degree student interested in health policy issues, particularly access for underserved populations. To that end, she describes clinical experience in a way that reflects exposure to these issues as a nurse.

 Gillian Ginsburg
-  198 St. Paul Street Brookline, MA 02446 617-555-6666 gginsburg@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor, Concentration in Health Law, anticipated May 2018

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH, Boston, MA
-  Master of Public Health, anticipated January 2018

 EMMANUEL COLLEGE, Boston, MA
-  Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, cum laude, May 2011

 EXPERIENCE

 GOTHAM HOSPITAL, Gotham, NY
-  Registered Nurse, 2011 – 2015

 EMMANUEL COLLEGE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES, Boston, MA

 Volunteer Emergency Medical Technician, 2009 – 2011

 EMMANUEL COLLEGE, OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE, Boston, MA

 Resident Assistant, 2009 – 2010

SKILLS


=== Page 48 ===
 Margaret Cohen
-  1 Melvin Avenue, Apt.6 • Brighton, MA 02135 • (202) 555-6894 • mcohen@bu.edu

 Education

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor anticipated, May 2018

 Northeastern University, Boston, MA
-  Bachelor of Arts summa cum laude in Political Science and Sociology, June 2010
-  Awards: University Honors Program Distinction, Golden Key National Honor Society, Phi Kappa Phi

 Relevant Experience

 Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., Washington, DC
-  Senior Program Specialist, Team Leader, Region III, June 2013-August 2015
-  Program Specialist, May 2012-June 2013

 Community Based Shelter, Rockville, MD
-  Shelter Aide / Legislative and Education Advocacy Aide, January 2011-May 2012

 Executive Office of the Governor, Boston, MA
-  Receptionist, June -September 2010
-  Dukakis Scholar, Office of Michael Hannahan, Special Advisor for Strategic Planning, April - June 2009

 Dail Eireann (Irish Parliament), Office of Deputy Brian Hayes, Dublin, Ireland
-  Intern, October -December 2008

 Additional Cooperative Education Internships

Massachusetts State Senate, Office of David P. Magnani, Boston, MA, September –December 2009
-  Cable News Network (CNN) International, Atlanta, GA, June –December 2007


=== Page 49 ===
 
-  Sample 1L Resume Prior Law-Related Experience Shows ties to California

 Michael P. Chang
-  11 Commonwealth Avenue, Apt. 55
-  Allston, Massachusetts 02134
-  mchang@bu.edu, (408) 555-0790
-  2006 Orchard Meadow Drive Saratoga, California 95070
-  EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, Massachusetts
-  Juris Doctor Candidate, May 2018
-  Activities: Shelter Legal Services – Law Student Advocate BU Intramural Soccer – Team Captain

 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY, Berkeley, California
-  Bachelor of Arts in History with Honors, May 2013

 EXPERIENCE

 PEOPLE’S TEST PREPARATION SERVICE, Berkeley, California
-  Executive Director
-  May 2014 – August 2015
-  Directed student-run volunteer organization that conducts free SAT test preparation courses to inner-city high school students across the East San Francisco Bay Area. Coordinated successful transition to New SAT curriculum, budget proposals, room allocations, fundraising and grant propositions, curriculum development, teacher recruitment, and correspondence with affiliated organizations and funding sources. Expanded organization to ten sites serving over 300 students. (Also served as Site Coordinator, January – May 2010; Teacher, August 2008 – December 2009)

 LAW OFFICE OF SALLY KILBURG, Alameda, California
-  Legal Assistant
-  January 2013 – April 2014
-  Assistant to solo practitioner attorney specializing in personal injury and small business litigation. Drafted office correspondence, legal pleadings and motions, discovery requests, case management statements, demand letters, and complaints. Conducted client interviews and client record requests. Managed all office computer, phone, and database systems, calendars and deadlines, case management, supply inventory, and filing. Performed transcription. Managed day- to-day office accounts payable, client cost cards, and billing. Performed routine upkeep of office computer systems.

 CAL MOCK TRIAL TEAM, Berkeley, California

 Mock Attorney
-  August 2012 – May 2013
-  Participated as both a defense and plaintiff’s attorney on the Cal Mock Trial Team at UC Berkeley. Assisted in development of case theory and strategy, prepared and delivered opening statements, prepared witnesses, and performed direct and cross examinations.

LANGUAGE SKILLS
-  Fluent in Cantonese; highly proficient in Spanish; proficient in Mandarin and French


=== Page 50 ===
 Cora A. Rossi

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  J.D. expected, May 2018
-  Activities: American Constitution Society

 MIAMI UNIVERSITY UNIVERSITY, Oxford, OH
-  B.A., magna cum laude, in Political Science and Communication, Minor in Philosophy, June 2014 GPA: 3.89

 EXPERIENCE

 OHIO ATTORNEY GENERAL’S OFFICE, Columbus, OH
-  Special Assistant to the Attorney General (June 2014-July 2015)

 DANN FOR OHIO, Columbus, OH
-  Finance Coordinator for Sen. Marc Dann’s Attorney General Campaign (June-November 2013)

 THE BRADDOCK ORGANIZATION, Columbus, OH
-  Principal Researcher (September 2012-May 2013)

 DR. LEE DERVIN, Columbus, OH
-  Research Assistant (April-September 2012)

 NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY, Washington, DC
-  Policy Intern (January-March 2012)

THOMPSON LAW FIRM, Columbus, OH
-  Intern (March-August 2011)


=== Page 51 ===
 HELEN CHO

 20 Aberdeen St, Apt 3 • Boston, MA 02215 • 917.555.3191 • hcho@bu.edu

 EDUCATION
-  Boston University, Boston, MA Juris Doctor, expected May 2018 GPA: 3.23
-  Auburn University, Auburn, AL Master of Arts in Teaching, May 2013 GPA: 3.8

 Providence College, Providence, RI
-  Bachelor of Arts in Government; Minor in Education, June 2012

 EXPERIENCE

 Teach for America/PS 335, Brooklyn, NY
-  First Grade Teacher
-  August 2013 – June 2015

 Providence College, Office of Residential Life Staff, Providence, RI
-  2009-20010, 2011-2012

 Children’s Defense Fund, Washington, DC
-  Field Intern
-  March – June 2011

 ABC News, New York, NY
-  Intern, Law & Justice Unit
-  January – March 2011

VOLUNTEER


=== Page 52 ===
 
-  Sample 1L Resume Includes 1L Grades

 SAMANTHA STEVENS
-  784 Beacon Street, Apt. 6 Brookline, MA 02446 617-555-1111 sstevens@bu.edu

 EDUCATION:
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, Massachusetts J.D. anticipated, May 2018 GPA: 3.68 (3.70 = top 20% of first-year section) Activities: Student Bar Association, First-Year Section Representative
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2018

 Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
-  B.S., Industrial and Labor Relations, May 2015 G.P.A.: 3.81 Honors: Dean’s List (all years) Saul Wallen Municipal Labor Scholarship (top student in major) Sidney H. Guller Undergraduate Scholarship Irving Ives Award Finalist (awarded to outstanding member of freshman class) Golden Key National Honor Society National Society of Collegiate Scholars

 EXPERIENCE:

 Office of Collective Bargaining, New York, NY
-  Legal Assistant, May to August 2015
-  Selected for position through competitive process headed by the Municipal Labor Committee. Reviewed and analyzed city employee surveys to determine if duties were managerial, and ultimately whether they were entitled to participate in collective bargaining. Conducted legal research regarding managerial and confidential employees for a Continuing Legal Education lecture given by the Director of Representation of the agency.

School of Industrial and Labor Relations Library, Detroit, MI
-  Student Library Assistant, August 2013 to May 2015


=== Page 53 ===
 JANE RHODES
-  21 Main Street • Charlestown, MA 02129 • (892) 555-2467 • jrhodes@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. with concentration in Transactional Practice expected, May 2018
-  LL.M. in Banking and Financial Law expected, May 2018
-  Activities: Business Law Society, Women’s Law Association

 The George Washington University, Washington, DC
-  B.B.A., magna cum laude, in Marketing and International Business, May 2013
-  Scholarship senior year; Dean’s List
-  Activities: Delta Sigma Pi (business fraternity)

 EXPERIENCE

 Natalie P. Shear Associates, Washington, DC
-  Conference & Event Associate, May 2013 – August 2015

 Eastwood & Azia, LLP, Washington, DC
-  Marketing Intern/ Legal Assistant, January – May 2013

 UBS Financial Services, Washington, DC
-  Marketing Intern, September – December 2012

INTERESTS
-  Tennis, hatha yoga, traveling by train, French language and culture


=== Page 54 ===
 Isaac Stein

 (617) 555-3109 • 113 Hamilton Street, Cambridge, MA 02139 • istein@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2018
-  Student Hurricane Network, Legislative Tracking Project Public Interest Project, Section Representative

 University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Amherst, MA
-  B.A., magna cum laude, in English and International Relations, May 2010
-  American University, August-December 2009, Washington, DC
-  Washington Semester Program in International Environment and Development Studies

 EXPERIENCE

 United States Army
-  1st Lieutenant, Platoon Leader, Kandahar, Afghanistan
-  2nd Lieutenant, Assistant Plans Officer, Fort Lewis, WA; Kandahar, Afghanistan Oct 2010 – Aug 2011

ACTIVITES AND INTERESTS
-  Broadway musicals, 19th-century U.S. history, snowboarding, and bungee jumping.


=== Page 55 ===
 
-  Joint degree; prior business work experience

 MR. MORGAN BYNNER
-  3 Harvard Avenue, Apartment 7 Brookline, MA 02446 (617) 555-6409 mbynner@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2018

 Boston University Questrom School of Business, Boston, MA
-  M.B.A. anticipated, May 2018
-  Williams College, Williamstown, MA B.A. in History and Music, May, 2011 GPA: 3.82/4.00 Activities: College Choir (2009-2011) Senior Thesis: Black, White and Green: Racism and the Boston Celtics

 EXPERIENCE

 JPMorgan Chase, Boston, MA
-  Senior Fund Accountant
-  December 2012 - August 2015

 Brown Brothers Harriman, Boston, MA
-  Global Fund Accountant
-  December 2011 – December 2012

Semi-Professional Musician
-  Singer, Songwriter, Performer
-  December 2009 - present
-  Travel: Spent June - November 2011 living in Honolulu, Hawaii
-  Music: Adept at guitar, percussion, string bass, piano, voice; experience in composing


=== Page 56 ===
Sample 2L Resumes


=== Page 57 ===
 ELLEN HOLMES

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated, May 2017

 Belmont University, Nashville, TN
-  B.A. cum laude, in International Relations, May 2013

 EXPERIENCE

 Middlesex County Probate and Family Court, Cambridge, MA
-  Judicial Extern to the Honorable Judith Nelson Dilday, August 2015 – present
-  Draft court orders regarding various topics, including divorce, child support, custody, and probate issues. Review, evaluate, and draft memoranda regarding findings of fact. Observe daily hearings.

 Grayer & Dilday, Boston, MA
-  Summer Associate, May – August 2015
-  Researched and drafted memoranda in support of motions involving various substantive areas of law, including criminal law and civil rights. Observed hearings and depositions.

 Davidson County Court Appointed Special Advocate, Nashville, TN
-  Volunteer Court Appointed Special Advocate, July 2013 – July 2014
-  Interviewed abused and neglected children, their custodial parents, and others. Prepared and filed reports for judges’ review or consideration. Completed thirty-six hours of pre-service training.

 Belmont Wilderness Orientation, Belmont University, Nashville, TN
-  Coordinator, February -- August 2012, and Trip Leader, August 2011 and August 2012

 Writing Fellows Program, Belmont University, Nashville, TN
-  Head Fellow, May 2012 – May 2013, and Fellow, August 2011 – May 2012

 McKinley, Ittersagen, Gunderson & Berntsson, PA, Attorneys at Law, Lebanon, TN

SKILLS & INTERESTS
-  Enjoy salsa dancing and fiddle playing


=== Page 58 ===
 Kaia T. Spencer
-  Home address: 52 Danbury Road, Bethesda, MD 20814 (240) 555-9891

 EDUCATION
-  J.D. candidate, May 2017
-  American Journal of Law and Medicine, Member

 Stanford University, Stanford, CA
-  Activities: Student Academic Advisor; Flute Ensemble; Flute Senior Recital

 EXPERIENCE

 U.S. District Court Judge Joseph L. Tauro, Legal Intern ⎯ Boston, MA
-  U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Legislative Correspondent ⎯ Washington, DC
-  Stanford Institute for International Studies, Research Assistant ⎯ Stanford, CA August 2009-May 2011

 Center for Strategic & International Studies, Intern ⎯ Washington, DC

COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT
-  Good Shepherd Ministries, Volunteer Math Tutor ⎯ Washington, DC
-  Everybody Wins, Reading Program, Volunteer Mentor ⎯ Washington, DC
-  Capital Area Immigrants’ Rights Coalition, Volunteer ⎯ Washington, DC/VA Volunteered on day visits to Virginia regional jails; assisted with legal rights presentations, information distribution and data collection; attended Political Asylum Training, D.C. Bar Pro-Bono program


=== Page 59 ===
 MICHAEL S. ROBERTS
-  200 West End Avenue · Apartment 22 · New York, NY 10023 · 212-555-1234 mroberts@gmail.com

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor anticipated, May 2017 G.P.A.: 3.32 Honors: International Law Journal Activities: International Law Society Client Counseling Competition (Semi-Finalist) Edward C. Stone Moot Court Competition

 TEMPLE UNIVERSITY, Philadelphia, PA
-  Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, in English Literature, May 2014
-  Study Abroad: Penn Italian Studies Summer Institute, Summer 2013

 EXPERIENCE

 CHOATE HALL & STEWART LLP, Boston MA
-  Summer Associate, Litigation Group, May – August 2015

 NEW YORK COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY’S OFFICE, New York, NY
-  Intern, Family Violence and Child Abuse Bureau, May – August 2013

 UBS FINANCIAL, New York, NY
-  Intern, Investment Group, May – August 2012

SKILLS & INTERESTS


=== Page 60 ===
 
-  Worked as research assistant during 1L summer

 KRISTA PEREZ
-  14 Bay State Road, Box 1234 · Boston, MA 02215 · 617-555-5393 · kperez@gmail.com

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2017
-  Dean’s Awards in Civil Procedure and Contracts

 Boston University, Boston, MA
-  Bachelor of Science cum laude in Human Physiology, May 2011

 EXPERIENCE

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA

 Research Assistant for Professor Tracey Maclin, Summer 2015

 Boston University, Office of Undergraduate Admissions, Boston, MA
-  Assistant Director, Fall 2012-Summer 2014

 AmeriCorps, City Year Boston, Boston, MA
-  Service Leader/Recruiter, Fall 2010-Spring 2011

 Town of Weston Recreation Department, Weston, MA
-  Day Camp Counselor, Summers 2008 - 2010

INTERESTS
-  Italian cooking, Red Sox baseball, and hiking


=== Page 61 ===
 
-  Sample 2L Resume Made extensive use of law school opportunities

 Jasira Bishil
-  (757) 451-6673 • 62 Bow St., Cambridge, MA 02139 • jbishil@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor, May 2017

 University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO
-  Bachelor of Arts, summa cum laude, in Political Science, Minor in Dance, December 2012
-  Honors: Phi Beta Kappa Honor Society, Dean’s List 2009-2011, Highest Honors for Honors Thesis Activities: Political Science Student Internship Program, Political Science Honors Program

 LEGAL EXPERIENCE

 Boston University School of Law Criminal Law Clinic, Boston, MA
-  Student Attorney, January 2015 - present
-  Represent indigent defendants charged with criminal offenses in the Boston Municipal Court.

 Shelter Legal Services – Rosie’s Place Clinic, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, August 2014 - present
-  Conduct legal research and client intakes for low-income women and children at a women’s shelter’s free legal clinic.

 Loyola Immigration Law Clinic, New Orleans, LA
-  Intern, Summer 2015
-  Represented low-income and indigent clients in immigration matters including: asylum, refugee, and special immigrant juvenile. Researched and wrote memoranda on immigration and criminal issues. Conducted interviews and represented a client in Immigration Court.

 Volunteer Lawyers Project, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, March 2015 - April 2015
-  Represented claimant at hearing addressing challenge to her unemployment insurance benefits.

 Greater Boston Legal Services, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, January 2014 - April 2014
-  Aided Haitian immigrants filing for Temporary Protected Status.

 Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, October 2013 - December 2013
-  Surveyed election-day polls in non-English speaking communities to ensure voters were able to cast ballots.

 OTHER EXPERIENCE
-  Boston Beer Works, Boston, MA, March 2013 - present (Bartender and Server)
-  Everett High School Color Guard, Everett, MA, August 2013 - August 2014 (Director)
-  The Asgard, Cambridge, MA, December 2012 - March 2013 (Server)

INTERESTS
-  Winter Color Guard Groups: Blessed Sacrament Color Guard, Oracle Winterguard, Signature Winterguard, Incognito Color Guard, October 2007 - April 2013


=== Page 62 ===
 Julia T. Fiorello
-  1111 Washington St., Apt. 10 • Boston, MA 02118 • (617) 555-1234 • jfiorello@bu.edu
-  Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA J.D. expected, May 2017 Activities: Edward C. Stone Moot Court Competition
-  LL.M in American Law, May 2015

 Università di Roma, Rome, Italy
-  M.S. in Law, May 2014
-  Activities: President of Model United Nations Studenti Roma, member of ESEG
-  B.S. in Law, October 2011, Final grade of 101/110

 EXPERIENCE

 Hyperion Software, Inc., Burlington, MA
-  Summer Intern, May - September 2015
-  Worked on contract analysis and review, assessing the structural, substantive and qualitative consistency of licensing and purchasing agreements. Completed cross-jurisdictional compliance research for Rocket’s foreign subsidiaries.

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  Research and Teaching Assistant to Prof. Jack Beermann, Introduction to American Law, August – December 2014

 Tribunale Ordinario di Roma – Intellectual Property and Unfair Competition Court, Rome, Italy
-  Judicial Clerk, March 2012 – June 2014
-  Researched and wrote opinions and drafted responses to motions on unfair competition and intellectual property issues. Served as mediator for mandatory attempt at reconciliation between parties before the beginning of court proceedings. Completed official minutes for all hearings and responded to party inquiries outside hearings.

 Unicredit Business Partner S.p.A., Rome, Italy
-  Legal Intern, October 2011 – December 2011
-  Managed and responded to criminal investigation requests and completed yearly compliance reviews.

 U.N. Model Italy, Rome, Italy
-  Director of college network and Professor, September 2010 – May 2011
-  Prepared syllabus and study guides, taught students in Rome, Milan, and Florence. Managed relationships and promotion with universities, organized and conducted on-campus promotional events.

LANGUAGES
-  Italian – native; English – Fluent; Spanish – Highly proficient


=== Page 63 ===
 JILL SMITH
-  2 College Hill Rd. Apt.1, Somerville, MA 02144 · (208) 555-4612 · jsmith2@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  JD, expected May 2017

 Boston University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Boston, MA
-  MA in Philosophy, expected May 2017
-  Association; Member, OutLaw; Participant, Peggy Browning Fund; Participant, Stone Moot Court
-  Stonehill College, BA, cum laude, in Economics and International Relations, February 2013, Easton, MA Honors: College of Citizenship and Public Service Grant Recipient

 EXPERIENCE

 Neighborhood Legal Services, Lynn, MA
-  Legal Intern, May 2015 - September 2015
-  Mediated cases in the Northeast Housing Court through the Lawyer for a Day Program, interviewed clients, and completed casework addressing issues such as public and subsidized housing, eviction, and homelessness. Conducted research on relevant legal issues including the foreclosure eviction of first-year Section 8 tenants.

 Boston Area Rape Crisis Center, Legal Advocacy Unit, Cambridge, MA
-  Legal Intern, June 2014 - September 2014
-  Completed casework addressing housing and employment issues and navigated the criminal legal process with clients.

 Student Hurricane Network, MatchMakers For Justice, Nationwide
-  Co-Chair, May 2014 - present
-  Organize fourth year of the program by partnering law students, universities, and practicing attorneys throughout the country with legal services organizations in the Gulf Coast to conduct remote legal assistance for Gulf Coast residents.
-  Student Participant, January 2011 - present
-  Assist New Orleans residents with succession casework. Participate on an “on-call” basis to conduct remote and on-the- ground research for the “Jena 6” case.

 Massachusetts Lesbian and Gay Bar Association, Committee on Transgender Inclusion, Statewide
-  Committee Member, March 2013 - present
-  Rally support surrounding an inclusive Employment Non-Discrimination Act and House Bill 1722: An Act Relative to gender-based discrimination and hate crimes. Cooperate with TransCEND to create a legal clinic that would provide legal assistance to indigent transgender communities.

 Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, November 2012
-  Conducted legal research on 1960s civil rights cases for Mr. Charles Walker, former Executive Director of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.

INTERESTS AND LANGUAGE SKILLS
-  Fluent in French; largely financed undergraduate education by working up to 40 hours/week; worked as security guard over summer and winter vacations; interests include fishing, social movements of the 1960s, and folk music


=== Page 64 ===
 Brian Breyer
-  990 Commonwealth Avenue, Apt.2b · Boston, MA 02215 · 617-222-3333 · breyer@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  JD anticipated, May 2017
-  GPA: 3.83 (Top 10% of Class)
-  Activities: President, Environmental Law Society

 University of Vermont, College of Arts and Sciences, Burlington, VT
-  BA, cum laude, in Environmental Studies, May 2010
-  Thesis: A Comparison of State Environmental Laws Throughout New England, 1970-1990 Activities: President, Environmental Council

 EXPERIENCE

 The Environmental Conservancy, Washington, DC
-  Legal Intern, Summer 2015
-  Researched changes in federal environmental laws since 1980 in order to track activity of each presidential administration and make recommendations regarding future lobbying efforts.

 The Charles River Association, Boston, MA
-  Volunteer, Summer 2014
-  Prepared report on effects of grassroots lobbying efforts on environmental policies in Massachusetts over last 20 years to track best practices and improve current efforts.

 The Avian Society, Birdville, VT
-  Promoted twice into positions of increasing responsibility within this nonprofit organization
-  Manager of Development Programs, June 2013 – July 2014
-  Development Coordinator, April 2012 – June 2013
-  Development Associate, May 2011 – April 2012

 Eastern Mountain Sports, Boston, MA
-  Sales Associate, September 2010 – April 2011

INTERESTS
-  International travel: Completed 16-month, self-funded tour of Latin America, 2005-2006


=== Page 65 ===
 
-  Sample 2L Resume Transfer student: highlights achievements in prior law school

 MONIQUE JOHNSON
-  20 East Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02906 • (570) 555-8392 • mjohnson@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, Massachusetts
-  Candidate for Juris Doctor

 Roger Williams University School of Law, Bristol, Rhode Island
-  Moravian College, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
-  Bachelor of Arts magna cum laude in Sociology and Criminal Justice

 EXPERIENCE
-  Motley Rice LLC, Providence, Rhode Island

 May 2015-Aug. 2015

 Court of Common Pleas, Allentown, Pennsylvania
-  Intern for Judge Thomas A. Wallitsch

 Bucks County Council, Inc., Doylestown, Pennsylvania
-  Prevention Specialist
-  Clerical Support (10 hours/week while attending college full-time)

Lincoln Elementary School, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
-  America Reads Tutor (8 hours/week while attending college full-time)


=== Page 66 ===
 LAILA RODRIGUEZ
-  (617) 333-4422 | 100 Good Street, Apt. 3, Brighton, MA 02135 | lrodriguez@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  J.D. anticipated May 2017, GPA: 3.66 (top 25% of class)
-  Activities: American Constitution Society, Health Law Association, Women’s Law Association

 Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA
-  M.P.H. anticipated January 2018

 The City College of New York, New York, NY
-  Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, January 2014, GPA 3.85

 EMPLOYMENT

 Volunteer Lawyers Project of the Boston Bar Association, Boston, MA
-  Legal Intern, Spring and Summer 2015

 American Civil Liberties Union: Racial Justice Program, New York, NY
-  Intern, Spring 2012

 Hafo Kindergarten, Oaxaca, Mexico
-  English Teacher, Fall 2011

LANGUAGE SKILLS
-  Proficient in Spanish and Portuguese


=== Page 67 ===
Sample 3L Resumes


=== Page 68 ===
 MARISA THOMAS
-  12 Chiswick Road, Apt. 5, Brighton, MA 02135 • mthomas@gmail.com • (617) 555-3214

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor, expected May 2016; GPA: 3.50 (Top 33% = 3.51)
-  Activities: President, BUSL-American Civil Liberties Union;

 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, GRADUATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION, New York, NY
-  Master of Arts, magna cum laude, Health Education, Human Sexuality, May 2012 Honors: President’s Service Award for Leadership; Pi Lambda Theta Honor Society

 NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, COLLEGE OF ARTS & SCIENCE, New York, NY
-  Bachelor of Arts, magna cum laude, Psychology, May 2009

 EXPERIENCE

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY, CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE, Boston, MA
-  3L Peer Advisor
-  Sept. 2015 to present
-  Advise law students regarding employment, funding sources, and academics; research and write various career-related resources; plan student panels and other events; advocate for greater support for public interest careers.

 MASSACHUSETTS ALLIANCE ON TEEN PREGNANCY, Boston, MA
-  Member, Board of Directors
-  Aug. 2013 to present
-  Contribute to fundraising efforts; strategize on state-wide campaign and collaborate with partner organizations; promote the Alliance and its presence as a resource in the Commonwealth.

 CENTER FOR REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS, New York, NY
-  Summer Associate, Domestic Legal Program
-  Summer 2015
-  Provided legal research and writing in support of litigation, including motions and memoranda on preemption, standing, advance directives, and protective orders; cite-checked appellate and amicus briefs, and policy publications; contacted and obtained statements from potential clients.

 MASSACHUSETTS COALITION FOR HEALTHY COMMUNITIES, Boston, MA
-  Rappaport Fellow in Law & Public Policy
-  Researched and wrote policy paper on the impact of state appropriations on teen pregnancy prevention and related programs in Massachusetts; facilitated strategic partnerships with other local advocacy organizations.

 SEXUALITY INFORMATION & EDUCATION COUNCIL OF THE UNITED STATES (SIECUS), New York, NY
-  State and Community Advocacy Associate
-  Monitored sexuality education controversy nationwide, including state and local mandates; researched opposition groups; provided technical assistance to local groups; researched and wrote advocacy materials.

 OTHER EXPERIENCE
-  Recipient, New York City Commission on the Status of Women Student Grant (July 2011); Graduate Assistant, Sexual Health Advocate and Volunteer, NYU Health Center (Jan. 2010-May 2012); Presenter, Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality Eastern Regional Conference (Spring 2012).

PUBLICATIONS
-  Marisa Thomas, Number of Controversies Decline as Schools Adopt Conservative Policies, 30 SIECUS REPORT 4 (Aug./Sept.
-  Marisa Thomas, What Abstinence-Only-Until-Marriage Education Looks Like in Communities Today 28 SIECUS REPORT 24


=== Page 69 ===
 Jean-Pierre Robert
-  15 Beacon St. Apt. 4 • Brookline, MA 02446 • (608) 555-2323 • jprobert@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Candidate for J.D., with Intellectual Property Law Concentration, May 2016
-  Law School Tour Guide/Admissions Advisor

 DEPAUL UNIVERSITY, Chicago, IL
-  B.S. in Industrial Engineering and Economics (double major), June 2011

 EXPERIENCE

 LATHAM & WATKINS, LLP, Chicago, IL
-  Summer Associate (offer extended)
-  Summer 2015

 KAPLAN TEST PREP, Boston, MA
-  LSAT Instructor
-  Summer 2014

EPIC SYSTEMS CORPORATION, Madison, WI
-  Project Manager, Implementation Services
-  Aug. 2011 – July 2013
-  ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, Milwaukee, WI and Chicago, IL
-  Asset Management Intern
-  Summers 2009 and 2010


=== Page 70 ===
 Richard Robertson
-  1700 Beacon Street, Apt.78 · Brookline, MA 02445 · 617-111-2222 · rrobertson@bu.edu

 EDUCATION

 Boston University School of Law, Boston, MA
-  JD anticipated, May 2016
-  Communication, Entertainment, and Sports Law Association
-  Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA
-  BA, History, May 2013
-  GPA:

 EXPERIENCE

 Xander, Yale, and Ziff, LLP, Boston, MA
-  Summer Associate, Corporate (eCommerce and Information), Summer 2015
-  Law Clerk, Business Litigation, Summer 2014
-  Paralegal, Business Litigation, May 2013 – September 2013

 Chuck’s Clam Shack, Edgartown, MA
-  Assistant Manager, Summers 2010 and 2011; Wait Staff, Summers 2008 – 2011

INTERESTS
-  Volunteer hockey coach, St. Mark’s School, Newton, MA, 2013 – present Enjoy hiking in New York’s Adirondack Park


=== Page 71 ===
 19 Easson Ct. ♦ Vallejo, CA 94591 ♦ (805) 555-1617 ♦ kmcguire@gmail.com

 EDUCATION:

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  J.D. expected, May 2016
-  Activities: International Law Society, Amnesty International at Boston University, Women’s Law Association, Student Welcomer, Student Advisor, Stone Moot Court Competition

 UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA BARBARA, Santa Barbara, CA
-  B.A. in Political Science, June 2012,
-  National Society of Collegiate Scholars, Participant in UCSB Honors Program, Dean’s

 EXPERIENCE:

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Research Assistant for Professor Keith N. Hylton, Fall 2015
-  Edit and revise portions of article comparing European and American monopolization law. Review and investigate sources and citations of two antitrust articles and an article on punitive remedies. Research and write memorandum about history of Anglo-American copyright law.

 GOODWIN PROCTER, LLP, Boston, MA
-  Summer Associate, June 2015-August 2015
-  Edited and revised expert reports, numerous court filings, memoranda, and outlines for the Corporate Litigation, Intellectual Property, Environmental, and Real Estate practice areas. Composed general office memoranda for the Banking and Intellectual Property practice areas. Prepared presentation summarizing discovery findings and outlining strategy for defendants in a patent infringement suit.

 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, Marin County, CA
-  Affordable Housing Summer Legal Intern, June 2014-August 2014
-  Researched minority preference systems in affordable housing. Investigated ways to increase minority diversity in Marin County. Conducted legal research, reviewed other programs, and interviewed experts. Co-wrote a resolution summarizing findings. Investigated new federal regulations regarding federal subsidized housing and National Historic Preservation Programs.

 PACIFIC CAPITAL BANK, N.A., Goleta, CA
-  Merchant Customer Service Representative and Mentor, July 2012-July 2013
-  Facilitated and identified merchant transactions and needs. Completed several certification projects required to meet federal banking regulations, including updating documentation for tax identification numbers and account titles to comply with the Bank Secrecy and Patriot Acts. Investigated and researched customer complaints, specifically unauthorized ATM transactions. Trained and supervised new employees. Created a comprehensive check cashing guideline used bank-wide for training purposes.

 WASHINGTON MUTUAL BANK, Santa Barbara & Corte Madera, CA
-  Customer Service Representative, June 2011-August 2011

INTERESTS:
-  Proficient in written and spoken Italian; sailing centerboard and J-24 boats; European travel Undergraduate education 100% self-financed


=== Page 72 ===
 JULIEANNE T. MARTIN
-  3 Saint Joseph Street, 3rd Floor Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts 02130 (617) 555-9077 martin@bu.edu

 EDUCATION:

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Juris Doctor anticipated, May 2016
-  Master of Arts in International Relations anticipated, December 2016
-  Student Welcomer, Student Ambassador

 AMERICAN UNIVERSITY, Washington, DC
-  Bachelor of Arts, cum laude, in International Affairs, May 2011
-  Concentration in Western Europe; Minor in French and Fine Arts & Art History

 INSTITUTE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION OF STUDENTS (IES), Nantes, France
-  Attended classes at the Université de Nantes and IES, September 2009-May 2010

 EXPERIENCE:

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  Research Assistant to Professor Daniela Caruso, June 2015 - September 2015

 REPRESENTATIVE ALICE WOLF’S OFFICE, Boston, MA
-  Legal Extern, September 2014 - January 2015

 ROPES & GRAY, LLP, Boston, MA
-  Litigation Support Intern, May 2014 - August 2014

 UNION BANK OF CALIFORNIA, San Francisco, CA
-  Sales Associate, September 2011 - July 2013

 CONGRESSWOMAN ELLEN TAUSCHER’S OFFICE, Washington, DC
-  Intern, January 2011 - May 2011

LANGUAGES, SKILLS & INTERESTS:
-  Fluent in French, basic reading comprehension of Spanish and Haitian Creole Travel - Western Europe, Croatia, Slovenia, “cross-country” USA, Puerto Rico, and Vietnam Calligraphy- Over ten years’ experience providing lettering for formal invitations and envelopes


=== Page 73 ===
 ELLEN STAHL

 EDUCATION

 BOSTON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW, Boston, MA
-  J.D., cum laude, 2016; Concentration in Litigation and Alternative Dispute Resolution with Honors

 LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL SCIENCE, London, U.K.
-  M.Sc. in Human Rights, Degree with Merit, 2012

 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, COLLEGE PARK, College Park, MD
-  University Gemstone (interdisciplinary team research, thesis), Honors, and Scholars Citations

 EXPER IENCE

 UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST CIRCUIT, Boston, MA

 Judicial Extern to the Honorable Juan R. Torruella, Fall 2015
-  Drafted opinions, composed bench memoranda, reviewed staff attorney opinions, and attended oral arguments.

 U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE, CIVIL DIVISION, OFFICE OF IMMIGRATION LITIGATION, Washington, DC

 Honors Summer Law Intern Program, Summer 2015
-  Researched and wrote draft motions and briefs; attended mock oral arguments, weekly legislative and management meetings.

 MEDICAL AND LEGAL PARTNERSHIP FOR CHILDREN, Boston, MA

 Legal Intern, Summer 2014
-  Assisted attorneys in providing legal advice to Boston Medical Center and neighboring health centers’ patients. Researched and drafted memoranda on immigration, housing, public benefits, health care, and education.

 STUDENT LEGAL AID OFFICE, College Park, MD

 Legal Intern, Student Defender, 2008-2009
-  Researched landlord-tenant and drug issues; conducted client interviews. Accompanied charged students to hearings, provided opening and closing statements, prepared witnesses, wrote letters of appeal.

 LAW AND SOCIETY PROGRAM, Exeter College, Oxford, England

 Summer Scholar, 2009
-  Researched the evolution of the British constitution. Analyzed the Human Rights Act of 1998.

INTERESTS
-  Tae Kwon Do (black belt), tennis, tap dancing, travel
